---
title: 1.5-Given-a-scenario,-use-Microsoft-operating-system-features-and-tools
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-58
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 1.5-Given-a-scenario,-use-Microsoft-operating-system-features-and-tools
= 1.5 – Given a scenario, use Microsoft operating system features and tools.

== Administrative

Microsoft OS Features and Tools (scenario)

Make sure you can apply the following features and tools when given typical user
scenarios. Microsoft puts all the various tools needed to manage a system on a
single screen to simplify the process.

On Windows Vista, to load the administrative tools, right-click Taskbar and then
select the Start Menu tab > Custom > System Administrative Tools.

On Windows 7, to load the administrative tools, click Control Panel > System
Security > Administrative Tools. The Windows 8 and 8.1 administrative tools can
be found in Settings > Tiles > Show Administrative Tools. Familiarize yourself
with all the applications available in the administrative tools. In Windows 10,
you can access the administrative tools by clicking on the Start button on the
taskbar, then scrolling down your apps and clicking on Windows Administrative
Tools.

Administrative

Windows comes with a set of utilities for administration.

Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! In this section we will look at some of the
tools and features available in Microsoft operating systems. We will focus on
what they do and how they are used. We’ll start out in the Control Panel>
Administrative Tools section. Using the Classic view, the Administrative Tools
icon provides access to some of the most powerful tools in the system.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Control Panel in Windows Classic View

In Category view look under System and Security.

Windows Control Panel in Category View

Administrative

Administrative Tools in the Control Panel contain several high-level functions.
We’ll examine those and discuss what they do.

Control Panel – Administrative Tools


=== Computer Management Computer Management

Computer Management, located in Administrative Tools, contains a variety of
tools used to manage the operating system found under the heading System Tools.
Review the function of these tools and be familiar with: Device Manager,
Performance Monitor, Services, System Configuration, Task Scheduler, Print
Manager, Memory Diagnostics, Windows Firewall, and Advanced Security.

Computer Management

This tool is accessible through several ways. In addition to clicking in the
Administrative Tools screen, Computer Management can be accessed using the Start
menu in Windows 10 through the Computer Management menu item. You can also view
it as a snap-in in the MMC or from the run dialog box as compmgmt.msc. In the
image below, Computer Management provides access to three toolsets: System
Tools, Storage, and Services and Apps.

Computer Management

Under System Tools in the first section, you can access the Task Scheduler to
arrange programs, virus scans, and backups to run during your preferred times.

Tools - Computer Management • Allows us to access the Task Scheduler, Event
Viewer, Disk Management, and other

=== Device Manager Device Manager

Device Manager allows you to view the status of devices, view the properties,
and modify the configuration parameters.

Administrative Tools – Device Manager • Shows us a list of devices connected to
the computer (internal and external) • Devices are categorized by type • We can
use Device Manager to view, disable, enable, or configure devices
 
 
=== Local Users and Groups Local Users and Groups

As a system administrator, you need to know how to create and delete users and
maintain their accounts, as well as how to establish secure passwords.

Shared Folders

Shared Folders shows all objects shared by the machine, including Administrative
shares which are generally hidden. These folders are designated with the dollar
sign character ($) (see screenshot below).

Shared Folders

Local Users and Groups / User Account Management

This is where permissions are managed by User or Group. Usually in a multi-user
environment, it is simpler to assign the permissions to a Group and then add
users to the group. Next is the Performance group where you can see real-time
statistical performance data on key system functions which is also available for
review and comparison as log files. The Performance screen also provides a link
to the Resource Monitor. Keep in mind that many of these links are also
available on their own in the Control Panel and at other various locations.

e Tools - Local Users and Groups • Shows us local users and groups • We can use
Local Users and Groups to view, create, delete, or disable user accounts • Only
available in Windows Pro versions • We can create a user or a user group o A
group is a set of users with specific privileges

=== Local Security Policy Local Security Policy

This can be run by command secpol.msc and allows changes to local security
policies, permissions, and rules.

Local security policy

This system essential policy editor can be launched from the search box by
invoking its filename secpol.msc.

istrative Tools – Local Security Policy • Allows us to set security policies on
the computer • Policies are categorized by type • We can use Local Security
Policy to create or modify security policies Other policies can be created
through a wizard

=== Performance Monitor Performance Monitor

This can be run by command perfmon and displays in real time how the computer
uses memory, disk, CPU, and the network, to help diagnose performance issues.

Performance Monitor

Administrative Tools - Performance Monitor  • Allows us to monitor different
system resources • We can use the performance monitor to measure system
resources, which could identify We can add additional items to track

=== Services Services

These can be run by command services.msc. They display the installed services
and their status. They allow the user to configure how the services start with
the computer and let you stop, start, and restart a service. Services are
background processes that are used by applications and don’t have their own
interfaces.

Services

This window starts, stops, and configures Windows services. In order to list all
services currently running on a system, use the net start command. We’ll explore
the GUI interface for this command later.

dministrative Tools – Services • Shows us all the installed services o A service
is a program that runs in the background • We can use Services to view, start,
stop, restart, or disable services rvice can run manually (user must manually
run it, or application must trigger it) or automatically.  A service can also be
disabled • A service may have dependencies o A dependency is a service required
for another service t

=== System Configuration System Configuration

This can be run by command msconfig. It allows you to change how Windows boots
and what programs start with Windows.

System configuration

System configuration is handled by msconfig.exe. This controls the initial
startup, the boot files, and the services loaded along with other tasks. The
operational aspects of this file have been shuffled around between versions of
the OS. We’ll cover this in detail later on in this domain.

istrative Tools – System Configuration • Also known as msconfig • Shows us the
start up menu, start up selection, and provides some tools • Will be discussed
in more detail • We can use services to modify the services that start up when
the computer does  

=== Task Scheduler Task Scheduler

The task scheduler can be run by command taskschd.msc. It allows you to
configure automated tasks that will run on a schedule, at specified times.

Windows Task Scheduler

Administrative Tools – Task Scheduler • Allows us to create, delete, or modify
automated tasks • For example, we might create a task to automatically run an
antivirus program each day A task must have a name and may have a description A
task will have one or more triggers o A trigger is a scenario or event that
causes the task to execute o A trigger could be a time (the task may run daily,
hourly, weekly, on week days, etc.) o A trigger could be an event (for example,
system start up, network connection, A task will have one or more actions o An
action is something that the task must do (run a program, establish a
connection, • We can also set conditions for the task  

=== Component Services Component Services

These can be run by command compexp.msc. Components, or COM apps, is a model for
apps to share components and libraries. The component services modification may
be needed if you need to troubleshoot a COM or DLL error when trying to start an
application.

Component services

Component services can be accessed here or as an MMC snap-in and registers
components during installation or as needed. You may also see this referred to
as Com +.

Windows Component Services

This tool can be used to access the local Event Viewer in order to examine
Administrative Events and system logs.

Administrative Tools – Component Services • Manages COM+ and DCOM components •
COM+ and DCOM are Windows plug ins that allow developers to create applications
that run

=== Data Sources Data Sources

These can be run by command odbcad32.exe. Data sources allow local applications
to connect to remote databases, over the network. If the application requires
the ODBC connection, that data source needs to be configured in Windows.

dministrative Tools – Data Sources • Data Sources lists the databases that the
computer can connect to
 
 
• We can add a new database to the system by specifying the database type, name,
and location o Once a database is added to the data source, other applications
can connect to the

=== Print Management Print Management

Part of the Microsoft Management Console (MMC) that can be run by command
mmc.exe. It allows you to view the status and manage local and network printers.

Print management

Available at the run line as printmanagement.msc, the Print Management utility
enables you to manage printers locally and on your network. Printer
administration can also be accomplished as demonstrated below from Control Panel
> Administrative tools.

Print Management

– Print Management • Allows us to view and delete printers installed on the
computer

=== Windows Memory Diagnostics Windows Memory Diagnostics

These can be run by command mdsched.exe tool to test RAM for errors. It requires
the user to restart the computer.

Windows memory diagnostics

Windows memory diagnostics are extremely useful to a technician because memory
problems are hard to diagnose. Since every process or program finds its way to
the memory, problems with disk storage can look like memory issues and vice
versa. In order to ensure that the memory is only being tested, the system is
rebooted and the memory is temporarily locked so there are no reads or writes
that could alter the values. This tried and true memory test will diagnose and
report any anomalies, so you can quickly zero in on any memory problems or
discount them as the case may be.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Administrative Tools – Windows Memory Diagnostics • Diagnoses errors with the
memory (RAM) • The diagnostics runs when the computer restarts

=== Windows Firewall Windows Firewall

The firewall is included with all versions of Windows. Be sure you are familiar
with all of the features here.

Windows Firewall with Advanced Security

Windows Firewall with Advanced Security is designed for network administrators
to provide enterprise-level security. Windows Firewall is NOT any sort of
substitute for the Windows Firewall option found on client machines in Control
Panel.

Administrative Tools – Windows Firewall • Allows us to set rules that permit or
deny traffic on our computer • The Firewall may be disabled and managed by an
antivirus application (such as Norton Antivirus) • We can create an Inbound Rule
o Affects traffic that is entering • We can create an Outbound Rule o Affects
traffic that is leaving • A rule can be set to block traffic (a blacklist) or
allow traffic (whitelist) o For example, in a highly secured environment, we can
block all traffic, and then only We can use a wizard to create rules • We can n
you install a program, it might add rules to the firewall, so that it can
operate pr

=== Advanced Security Advanced Security

Advanced Security is a more detailed way to configure the Windows Firewall. It
allows you to block and allow specific applications and network ports.

Firewall with Advanced Security

Windows Firewall with Advanced Security is a stateful IPv4 and/or IPv6 packet
filter set to block all inbound traffic by default. You’ll find this is
infinitely more tedious to configure but in the end, you are less likely to get
hacked by a drive-by attack.


=== Event Viewer Event Viewer

This can be run by command eventvwr.msc. It shows system, application, and
security logs and error messages.

Event Viewer

Event Viewer provides Information, Warnings, and Errors about System operation,
allowing you to track system problems and their history.

Windows Event Viewer

• The event viewer shows us a list of events (automatically logged by Windows) •
We can use the event viewer to identify the source of errors
 
• Events are generated by the System, by Security issues, and by Applications •
An event can be a piece of information, a warning, an error, or a critical error
• We can filter by the type of error, the source, or the date/time that it
occurred

=== User Account Management User Account Management

As a system administrator, you need to know how to create and delete users and
maintain their accounts, as well as how to establish secure passwords.


== MSConfig MSConfig

This can be run by command msconfig and allows you to change how Windows boots
and what programs start with Windows. The utility’s functions are presented in
five tabs:


MSCONFIG

System Configuration, or msconfig.exe as it is commonly called, has undergone
some minor changes between legacy Windows Vista and later Windows versions such
as Windows 10. We’ll note the changes as necessary. Please grasp the
capabilities of this tool in diagnosing and dealing with Startup problems. You
can access the utility in several ways. The most direct way is to use the Run or
Search box on the Start menu and type msconfig.exe. Within msconfig, there are
five tabs which allow the user to control which programs or even Operating
Systems are included in the startup. This gives the user the flexibility to zero
in on a problem through trial and error. This is quite effective because changes
are temporary until the user confirms them. We will dive deeper into msconfig
below and look at each feature tab by tab. Remember that msconfig provides a
good way to identify your problem but is not a permanent fix.

msconfig – General, Boot, Services, Startup, Tools When Windows boots, it loads
• Drivers for all the installed hardware components • The programs that are
listed in the Startup list • All the services that are set to run automatically
Drivers, programs, and services can cause errors.  In msconfig, the general tab
has three options • Normal startup: loads all start-up items (drivers, programs,
and services) • Diagostic start-up: loads only basic start-up items and services
(we can use this to disable many drivers and start-up items, and then enable
them one by one to see which one is the The boot tab allows us to choose
advanced boot settings Boot in Safe Mode (minimal features), an Alternate Shell
(boot to a command prompt), or from the Network • We can also choose to limit
The services tab allows us to enable or disable services The startup tab lists
all the applications that start up when the computer start In newer versions of
Windows, the startup tab is in the Task Manager • The startup tab also lists the
impact each item has on the computer’s performance (may not

=== General General

The General tab shows the mode of Windows startup.

General

This Tab provides access to the startup selections. The earlier you intercept or
influence an operation, the more capability you will have overall.[GL1]   The
general tab offers three startup selections: Normal, Diagnostic, and Selective.

General tab – Normal startup

Normal Startup loads all device drivers and services. Selective Startup loads a
bare bones configuration or a subset of the configuration. Did it fix your
problem? If not, try the Diagnostic Startup which is more or less safe mode.


=== Boot Boot

The Boot tab allows configuration of multi-boot when multiple operating systems
are installed, and how to boot into these operating systems, mostly for
troubleshooting (safe mode).

Boot

This is where you can configure your system in order to boot to multiple
operating systems (one at a time). You may find a program that works fine in
Linux but not in Windows. When it’s time to install drivers, save the files to
removable media. This is important because the native file systems of the
systems you are installing may not be able to read each other. Boot also allows
you to control the boot method (including the OS), the GUI in use, logging, and
whether or not to start with the base video configuration.

MSconfig – Boot tab


=== Services Services

The Services tab allows the user to manage services for troubleshooting. A
restart will be required after making a change.

Services

Services and dependencies are considerably harder to grasp than other system
operations. For example, your audio card needs input in order to function
properly. This input can be in the form of a stored digital media file, a
compact disc, or a cda file. The system will treat and deliver the encoded media
software to the hardware device. The device will follow its instructions in
order to reproduce the audio to the predefined specifications we expect to hear.
These instructions are known collectively as “drivers.” The drivers for a
hardware device can be updated on the fly to correct errors or add features.
This utility is available through system configuration or by accessing the
Services console directly from Control Panel > Administrative Tools.

Services are each capable of the following settings:

Automatic (Delayed Start) relieves startup strain on the system. Automatic
starts some programs on system load and delays starting other programs and
services until there are resources available.

Manual starts when needed.

Disabled cannot be started.

You may find over time that an excessive amount of services are loaded by the
system. To reduce the large number of services being shown, click the “Hide all
Microsoft services” and only non-Microsoft services will appear.

MSconfig – Services tab


=== Startup Startup

In Windows 7, the Startup tab showed applications that started with Windows.
Since Windows 8, the tab only contains a link to the Startup tab in the Task
Manager utility for the same functionality.

The Startup tab is one of the changes that came in the update to Windows 8.1.
The Startup tab exists in the System Configuration screen but the actual applet
has been moved to the Task Manager. We’ll cover the Startup tab where it exists
now (see below).


=== Tools Tools

The Tools tab lists and launches other administrative and troubleshooting tools.

Tools

The Tools tab provides quick access to many important system tools such as
Computer Management, Event Viewer, and Registry Editor. This enables the user to
quickly address any issues he or she finds while using the System Configuration
tool.


== Task Manager Task Manager

The Task Manager is a utility that shows and manages running applications and
services, logged in users, and system performance.

Task Manager

Task Manager – Applications, Processes, Performance, Networking, Users The Task
Manager Applications (now known as Processes) tab • Lists each running
application • For each application, it lists the current CPU, Memory, Disk, and
Network usage Lists the total CPU, Memory, Disk, and Network usage • Can show us
if a specific application is hogging resources n newer versions of Windows, the
  Processes tab lists Applications and Background Processes

=== Applications Applications

Lists the running applications. The Applications tab is only available in
Windows 7 and was dropped in Windows 8 and beyond.

Applications

Applications/App history provides real time usage statistics regarding the
applications being run and the amount of system resources being used. These
results can be sorted, allowing you to view resource usage from high to low in
order to help the user identify background apps that are hogging resources.
Clear the history to attain an accurate picture of the current resource usage.
Again, the user has the ability to dial back the results to suit his or her
needs. In our example, the highest CPU time and Network use are highlighted.

Task Manager – App history


=== Processes Processes

This tab lists the current running processes and resources consumption. Since
Windows 8, it also lists the running applications.

Processes

The Processes tab displays all currently running Apps and Processes, allowing
the user to spot any irregularities.

Task Manager – Processes tab

The Details tab (also known as the processes tab on older versions of Windows) •
Shows a list of running processes ch process, it shows the Process ID, the
status, the user who is running the process, and the CPU/memory utilization • A
process could be an application or a service • We can end a process or view the
location of the file that contains the process

=== Performance Performance

This tab shows how CPU, Memory, Disk I/O, and network resources are utilized. It
can be very helpful in identifying the bottleneck in a slow-running computer.

Performance tab

This tab now includes networking information. Networking had its own tab under
Windows Vista and 7. By default, the Performance tab displays the resources used
by each system component. The interface also shows a detailed graphical view,
providing a more tangible look at the data.

Task Manager – Performance tab

he Performance tab • Shows us the performance of the computer in a graphical
interface

=== Networking Networking

This tab in Windows 7 shows the networking performance. In Windows 8 and later,
this information has been moved to the Performance tab.

Networking

On the Performance tab, clicking your Network connection displays the Send and
Receive statistics. The graph is updated about once per second and can give an
accurate representation of network usage.

Performance tab – Networking

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Startup

Startup is another utility that has moved. Clicking the Startup Tab in msconfig
now takes you to the Start Up applet in Task Manager. A scaled down version of
the earlier applet is shown below.

Task Manager – Startup tab


=== Users Users

This tab shows currently logged in users, their status, and applications run by
these users.

Users

This shows a list of the currently active users on the machine. Identify
bottlenecks by examining users that are still using resources even though
they’ve finished.

Task Manager – Users tab

Here we see the available network resources and utilization. This can also be
used to identify system bottlenecks. For example, there maybe a program
consuming excessive network resources. The program can be identified in this
tab.

• Shows a list of users who are logged in • For each user, it shows the
applications that the user is running, and the resources that each

== Disk Management Disk Management

Windows provides a disk management utility that can be run with the diskmgmt.msc
command. The utility shows information and allows changing the disks,
partitions, and volumes configuration.

Disk Management

The Disk Management section of the Computer Management console provides access
to all the tools necessary to initialize new drives for use. Looking across the
top navigation labels, all connected drives are listed including removable
drives and reserved System Recovery drives, which are hidden and displayed as
empty.

 Management – Drive Status, Mounting, Initializing, Extending Partitions,
 Splitting Partitions, Shrink Partitions, Assign/Change Drive Letters, Add
 Drives, Add Arrays Shows us a list of physical disks, and how they are
 partitioned • At the top, we can see a list of every partition, the type of
 partition (Basic or Dynamic), the File System, the Status, the Capacity, and
 the amount of Free Space • At the bottom, it shows us each disk, its capacity,
 and a layout of the partitions (remember e can add a drive letter to a
 partition We can shrink a volume by up to the maximum amount of free space
 available.  For example, if the volume is 1000MB, with 250MB of free space,
 then we can shrink it by up to 250MB.  e can increase the size of a partition.
 o There must be free space available on the drive o The free space must be to
 the right of the partition For example, in the photo, we can increase the
 Volume F by 97.66GB (since we have 97.66 GB to the right of Volume F).  o We
 can’t increase Volume D, or add the 97.66GB to volume D, because there is no
 free space to the right of Volume D o We can also turn the 97.66GB into one or
 more new volumes We can create a new volume from some unallocated free spac If
 we install a new physical disk, it will appear in Disk Management Choose to
 initialize the disk either as a GPT or MBR o create a RAID array o Choose a New
 Spanned Volume o Then choose the type of RAID gement isn’t always the best tool
 • Consider using a commercial tool for more advanced operations

=== Drive status Drive Status

The Status column shows the status information for each volume. It includes
health and availability, volume type, and content type.

Drive Status

Notice the drive’s layout and that all the volumes are Basic (with the exception
of the Acer boot drive which is Dynamic). You can see the file systems in use.
Note that NTFS is used for the boot partition and FAT32 is used for the
removable drive. This is done to make the removable drive compatible with all
OS’s. Under Status, all drives but the Acer and UDISK drives are displaying no
storage content and specific file systems. The Capacity, Free Space, and % Free
are listed for all drives.

Disk management


=== Mounting Mounting

Mounting applies to NTFS and allows the user to mount a drive to a folder, not a
drive letter.


=== Initializing Initializing

After adding a new disk to a Windows computer, the drive may need to be
initialized. This erases all data and prepares the disk to be used in Windows.


=== Extending partitions Extending Partitions

You can increase the size of a partition by extending it. It requires free space
adjacent to the partition. Depending on the type and the file system, this task
may or may not require erasing the data.

Extending Partitions

Assess the way you are using your storage resources in Disk Management.
Extending drives will use additional available space on the disk.

Disk Management – Extend Partition


=== Splitting partitions Splitting Partitions

Splitting partitions means creating two partitions in place of one. Windows Disk
Management tools don’t allow splitting, but the same can be achieved by
shrinking a partition, then creating another one.


=== Shrink partitions Shrink Partitions

Shrinking is reducing the size of a partition. Of course, the resulting
partition size should be able to fit all existing data. Depending on the type
and the file system, doing this may require erasing the data.

Shrinking Partitions will reduce the disk space used by the partition and create
unallocated space on the disk. A Shrink Partition Wizard provides some guidance
and prevents data loss.

Splitting Partitions utilizes unallocated free space that can then be used as
another partition.


=== Assigning/changing drive letters Assigning/Changing Drive Letters

To access the file system and start using the disk for file storage, a disk
needs to be assigned to a drive letter (e.g., C:, D:, E:, etc.). Once assigned,
the files can be accessed through this drive. A drive letter can be changed for
the disk. Be aware that it may change how the system, applications, and users’
shortcuts reference the files and break some functionality if not done
correctly.


=== Adding drives Adding Drives

To add a drive, install the hardware, initialize, format, assign a letter, or
mount the NTFS drive to a folder.

Adding Drives

All new drives must be initialized before first use, after which the drive needs
to be mounted to the System. Initializing the drive allows the system to
recognize it. The New Simple Volume Wizard can be used for designating the
format type and for assigning/changing drive letters.

As seen by the various drive sizes on Disk 0, there are automatic and manual
file system configurations. Partitions can be resized, extended, and split using
the management tools in the utility.


=== Adding arrays Adding Arrays

An array is a set of disks configured for improved performance and reliability.
Software arrays are created and managed by Windows and can be created in the
Disk Management utility after adding more than one disk. Hardware arrays use a
special controller, configured separately before Windows boots. The array of
disks then appears as a single disk to the operating system.

Adding arrays

When adding a new drive (HDD or SD) to a newer system, use the drive as normal
storage or create a drive array. This can usually be done in UEFI/BIOS by
following the Manufacturer’s instructions. The second drive permits RAID 0
striped or RAID 1 mirrored configuration.


=== Storage spaces Storage Spaces

Storage spaces are created in a separate dedicated utility in Control Panel.
This allows you to create different types of disk arrays, even across different
types and sizes of disks.

Storage spaces

Now we’ll talk quickly about storage spaces and arrays. Beginning with Windows
8, there is support for many hard disks. The more drives that are added, the
greater the recovery options. In two drive pools, the failure of one drive will
cause both drives to fail. In order to ensure the pool will preserve the data,
ensure Raid is not used. Access storage space on the Control Panel and follow
the prompts. Think of this as a more flexible RAID with a 2-drive system without
mirroring or parity versus a 3 or 5-disk system providing parity. Drives can be
added should your needs increase. Storage spaces are shown below. Note that any
existing data on the selected disks will be lost. Be careful!

Storage Spaces


== System utilities System Utilities

Windows includes system utilities useful in maintenance, configuration, and
troubleshooting.

System Utilities

=== Regedit Regedit—Registry Editor allows the user to view and change the
Windows registry. The registry contains some operating system and application
settings that may need to be changed in advanced troubleshooting.

REGEDIT

Regedit.exe is launched from the Windows Run line. It is a hierarchal database
and is built each time Windows boots, is updated as the system runs, and is
saved on shutdowns. Primarily, Regedit is used to backup and/or retrieve
registry hives and to correct errors.

 Utilities – Regedit • Windows Registry Editor • Need admin privileges to
 operate • Contains system, user, and application settings & preferences


The registry is hierarchical (contains keys, which are like folders) • Keys
store values; each value contains a different setting  • There are five main
keys o HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE: contains computer settings o HKEY_CURRENT_CONFIG:
contains information generated at boot time (this information is regenerated
each time the compute reboots) o HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT: contains information about
applications o HKEY_USERS: contains settings for all users o HKEY_CURRENT_USER:
contains settings for the user who is logged in • It’s possible to store a
registry value inside a registry file

=== Command Command—Command line interface, a prompt to enter commands in text
format.

COMMAND

This Command is used to launch a standard user Command Prompt. It can be also be
used to launch administrative prompts using the runas option.

System Utilities – Command • The command prompt allows you to type in commands

=== Services.msc Services.msc—Command to open the Services utility to view and
manage the system services.

SERVICES.MSC

The Services Console can be launched several ways including from the command
line. You can also launch through the MMC Services console or the mmc snap-in
shown below.

Utilities – Services.msc • Services shows a list of services (as mentioned
earlier)

=== MMC MMC—Microsoft Management Console is a graphical interface used by many
system utilities, for instance the Device Manager. Running MMC separately allows
the user to open all the utilities that use that interface in the console.

MMC

The MMC is a centralized data base for the tools scattered around the system.
The MMC puts all the tools at your fingertips by adding the correlating icon. In
this example, the services and disk management consoles have been added.

MMC Snap-ins

em Utilities – MMC • Microsoft Management Console • A framework for managing
multiple sets of Windows settings (such as Device Manager, Disk Management,
etc.) • You can add “snap ins” to the Console; a snap in is a module that
controls a specific function

=== MSTSC MSTSC—Client for remote desktop, also known as terminal service, to
connect to a remote Windows computer

MSTSC

This program allows a PC, connected to a Remote Desktop Session, to be able to
edit the configuration files on different PCs using the RDP.

tilities – MSTSC • Also known as Remote Desktop Connection • Allows you to
create a connection to a remote computer

=== Notepad Notepad—Simple text editor.

NOTEPAD

Notepad.exe is considered a very safe text editor that has been around since the
beginning. It is a reliable tool.

m Utilities – Notepad • Allows you to create and edit text documents

=== Explorer Explorer—File explorer to browse and manage files.

EXPLORER

This is the Windows file management system. Explorer can Create, Copy, and
Launch files and folders.

em Utilities – Explorer • Allows you to navigate between folders • Also known as
“This PC” • In the top left, you can pin folders that you access most frequently
• In the right, you can navigate between different folders • At the top, there
are buttons to rename, delete, move, or copy selected files (although you can
right click on a file/folder to do the same thing) • There is also an address
bar that shows you where in the folder hierarchy you are; you can

=== Msinfo32 Msinfo32—Displays advanced hardware and drivers information.

MSINFO32

Launches the System Information described earlier.

System Utilities – msinfo32 • Provides information about the computer • Includes
the operating system version, the processor type, and the amount of RAM • Also
lists the hardware installed and the details about the software environment

=== DxDiag DxDiag—DirectX Diagnostic Tool is for troubleshooting DirectX,
display, audio, and input devices drivers.

DXDIAG

Displays reports of DirectX components that are disabled.

DirectX diagnostic tool

stem Utilities – DxDiag • Runs DirectX diagnostics • Runs diagnostics for sound
and video drivers • DirectX is a set of Microsoft APIs (Application Programming
Interfaces) that allow software developers to write programs that interact
better with common video and sound hardware • When there are errors with the
display or the audio, running the DxDiag tool can help locate

=== Disk Defragmenter Disk Defragmenter—Relocates pieces of large files to
continuous space on a disk for optimized performance.

Disk Defragmenter (DEFRAG)

This tool arranges the file fragments on a disk into contiguous clusters for
faster reads.

Utilities – Disk Defragmenter • Allows you to defragment your disk o A disk
becomes fragmented when files are stored in multiple pieces in different parts
of the drive (instead of being stored contiguously)  • The defragmentation
process can be run when the computer isn’t busy

=== System Restore System Restore—Creates, manages, and restores the system
using restore points.

System restore

This utility can create system images automatically and restore them on demand.

m Utilities – System Restore • Allows you to restore your computer to a previous
time and state o You can restore your computer only to a “restore point” o
Windows automatically creates “restore points” when major system changes occur
(updates and installation of software programs) o You can also manually create a
restore point • Restores system files and drivers • Does not affect documents •
You must have System Restore enabled for it to function en restoring, Windows
will show you a list of available restore points

=== Windows Update Windows Update—Checks, installs, and manages Windows and
other Microsoft updates.

Windows Update

In order to manage software and security issues, Microsoft introduced Windows
Update which can run in the background during off peak hours.

Security Configuration

This method is not available in Home Editions of the Windows OS. This is
generally launched as an MMC Snap-in.

System Utilities – Windows Update • With Windows 10, updates are mandatory •
Windows Update automatically checks with Microsoft servers for available updates
o Updates are downloaded in the background o Updates are installed automatically
o You can choose a time to install the update (when your computer isn’t busy)
