---
title: 1.6-Given-a-scenario,-use-Microsoft-Windows-Control-Panel-utilities
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-58
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 1.6-Given-a-scenario,-use-Microsoft-Windows-Control-Panel-utilities
= 1.6 – Given a scenario, use Microsoft Windows Control Panel utilities.  ==
Internet Options




Microsoft Windows Control Panel Utilities (scenario)

The Control Panel includes tools and utilities to view, change, and troubleshoot
system settings.

Internet Options

Internet Options is a utility to manage network settings beyond basic IP
connectivity. The settings are separated into multiple tabs.

Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! In this installment, we will look at the
Windows Control Panel Utilities. As usual, we will follow along with your exam
objectives for 1.6 “Given a scenario, use Windows Control Panel utilities.”

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Windows Control Panel Internet Options

Internet Options is the primary tool for managing the settings for Internet
Explorer. Access it using the Internet Options applet in the Control Panel
classic view. Always save your changes when using this tool. Let’s start by
looking at the main or general tab of the interface.

Internet Options – General tab

General tab

The General tab is where you can set your default homepage, how the browser
opens, how your browser tabs operate, and most importantly control your browsing
history, cookies, passwords, and web form entries. You’ll also find the
appearance settings here for Colors, Languages, Fonts, and Accessibility.

Internet Options – General tab

Internet Options can be accessed from the Control Panel or from Internet
Explorer • Internet settings don’t apply to other web browsers (Google Chrome,
Firefox, etc.) • The General tab allows you to o Set a homepage (the page that
is displayed when you first open Internet Explorer) o Allows you to modify the
appearance of the browser Security tab allows you to set the security level for
a website • Websites have four categories o Internet: normal websites; Internet
websites are normally not trusted o Local Intranet: websites on the corporate
network; Local Intranet websites are sted sites: sites that are considered
trusted.  A user can add websites to the Trusted Sites list o Restricted sites:
sites that are not trusted.  A user can add websites to the Restricted he
Privacy tab allows you to set which websites can save cookies The Content tab
lists all the certificates installed on the computer The Content tab allows you
to add and remove VPN connections ms tab lists the installed add-ons and
plug-ins • It also allows you to set default programs for browsing the internet
The Advanced tab allows to you to select advanced options such as Accessibility,
script debugging, HTTP settings, and security settings === Connections
Connections—Add and manage dial-up and VPN connections; configure proxy settings
for web browsing.

Connections tab

The Connections tab is where network connections are setup. Dial-up VPN and
local LAN settings are also handled here.


=== Security Security—Define security settings for different zones. Websites can
be added to the list of trusted or restricted sites, and different settings may
be applied to these lists. The settings control what types of scripts will be
run on the sites in the different lists and by default.

Security tab

The Security Tab maintains the settings for each of the four internet zones.
Each zone can have their security set from medium to high. Here is where
Protected Mode can be enabled or disabled. Remember that if changes were made,
save them by clicking OK or Apply.

Internet Options – Security tab


=== General General—Configure what is shown when Internet Explorer is started,
home page, tabs behavior, and interface appearance


=== Privacy Privacy—Allow and block sites, choose if you want to send your
location to websites, and configure pop-up blocking.

Privacy tab

The Privacy tab controls the level of access cookies have to the machine. This
can be set anywhere from allow all to block all. Find the optimum fit between
functionality and safety. Blocking popups and blocking sites from discovering
your location are set here.

Internet Options – Privacy tab


=== Programs Programs—Set default applications for Internet browsing, HTML
editing, and email; manage and configure Internet Explorer add-ons.

Programs tab

The Programs tab allows the user to define the default web browser and to allow
or block add-ons/ Plug-ins which are used to accelerate multimedia performance,
such as Active X.

Internet Options – Programs tab


=== Advanced Advanced—Lists advanced settings of accessibility, web browsing
behavior and protocols, and security.

Advanced Tab

The last entry we’ll cover in Internet Options is the Advanced Tab. This tab has
powerful controls and can dial in the performance of the browser. However, it is
just as easy to crash the browser here, so be careful and consider what you are
doing. Should you happen to crash the browser, reset to the defaults and try
again!

Internet Options – Advanced tab


== Display/Display Settings Display/Display Settings

This is the means to change the video output settings.



Display/Display Settings

The Display applet is the next Control Panel utility we will look at. When the
interface launches, the first item shown is Color Calibration. Clicking this
allows you to optimize the color of your display(s) using the Color Calibration
Wizard. Start by optimizing the gamma, then move on to the brightness and the
contrast. Lastly, adjust the color balance and clear type settings.

nel – Display • Display settings allows you to o Set the brightness (on a laptop
screen) o Set the scale (zoom) o Set the screen resolution  Windows will show
you the recommended screen resolution  The available screen resolutions depend
upon the type of graphics card and monitor that are installed o Set the order of
the displays (when there are multiple displays) In advanced display settings,
you can set the Refresh Rate • The refresh rate is the speed at which the screen
updates (like frames per second) • 60 Hz is the most common setting • High-end
graphics cards and monitors may offer higher refresh rates === Resolution
Resolution

Resolution is the number of vertical and horizontal pixels on the monitor.
Windows usually recommends the highest resolution that your monitor supports for
a crisper view, but this can be changed if needed.

Resolution

Clicking on the Screen resolution shows any displays that are connected. This
window displays and allows modifications to the resolution and orientation of
the displays. The resolution identifies the size and scale of the display and is
expressed by a pair of numbers. The first value is the number of pixels that are
displayed horizontally and the second value is the number of pixels displayed
vertically. This yields a pixel expression such as 1680×1050 which is the
recommended resolution for the monitor shown. Use the recommended settings as a
rule.

Display Resolution and Refresh


=== Color depth Color Depth

Color depth is a measurement of how many bits are used to represent color.
Higher depth would result in more accurate color representation on the monitor,
but requires more hardware and software resources to do so.

Refresh rate & Color depth

The image below shows the refresh rate and color depth settings. The refresh
rate is the number of times per second the screen can be completely overwritten.
This number will be 60Hz (60 times a second) or higher. The human eye cannot
perceive rates of 60Hz and higher so the graphics appear fluid and smooth for
these refresh rates. The color depth should be as high as your hardware can
support. In this case, the monitor can support True Color at 32 bits. Some
manufacturers use their own drivers and control programs which are geared
specifically to their hardware. This may perform better than the Windows based
interface however either one will work.

OEM graphics control panel resolution


=== Refresh rate Refresh Rate

Refresh rate is how frequently the image on the monitor changes. A higher rate
provides smoother motion for graphics, videos, and games, but requires more
hardware and software resources.


== User Accounts User Accounts

You can add, manage, and remove local users and their roles for the computer.
Each user will have his or her own profile with different settings and user
folders.

User accounts

A Windows workstation can create two account types for new users: Standard or
Administrator. When creating users, it is best to make them Standard since they
can be added to Groups if they need additional privileges. A user is created
from the control panel by clicking the User Accounts applet. This opens an
Account wizard which initially asks for the user’s email address and password.
If this info is not available, that page can be skipped and an account can be
created with just a username and password. The password can and should be
changed by the user when they first access the machine. Once the user is setup
on their machine, they have the option to create a Single sign-on Microsoft
account giving them Cloud access to online storage and more. Other vendors offer
similar services.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Control Panel – User Accounts Accounts allows you to set a photo and login type
on your own account • You can choose to log in with a password, a pin, a photo,
or with no password • You can choose to log in with a Microsoft Account o If you
log in with a Microsoft Account, your password is stored by Microsoft.  o The
computer authenticates your log in with Microsoft (over the internet) o The
computer will record the last correct password you entered.  If your computer is
offline and you try to log in, the computer will check your password against the
last correct password saved on the computer • You can change your account from
an Administrator to a Standard user o There must be at least one admin account
on a computer o Only an admin has privileges to change account types, add new
accounts, or disable accounts • If your computer is connected to the domain, you
won’t be able to use the User Accounts

== Folder Options Folder Options

Folder options change how files are shown and searched.

Folder options

Folder options or File Explorer Options, depending on your Windows version, is a
utility used to handle folder operations.


A filename consists of the file name plus an extension such as .exe or .doc. By
default, Windows hides these extensions, making file naming and renaming
difficult as you may end up with a file with multiple extensions. View options
allows you to show the full filename and extension. This setting is also in the
View tab.

Folder options allows you to control how files and folders are displayed On the
General Tab • Choose whether to open new folders in the same window or in new
windows • Choose whether an item opens with a single-click or a double-click •
Ability to delete your history (File Explorer remembers the folders you recently
visited)

dvanced Tab • Can choose to show or hide hidden files and/or protected operating
system files • Can choose to show or hide other items such as the status bar,
drive letters, file sizes, etc.  e Advanced Tab • Can choose to show or hide
hidden files and/or protected operating system files • Can choose to show or
hide other items such as the status bar, drive letters, file sizes, etc.  the
Search Tab • Choose whether to use the search index (Windows creates an index of
file names).  Using the index makes the search faster, but less accurate,
especially for slower computers.  === View hidden files View Hidden Files

Hidden is a file flag that signifies that users don’t usually need to see these
files, like system and configuration files. Windows settings can be changed to
show these files if they need to be accessed.


=== Hide extensions Hide Extensions

In Windows, files have extensions at the end of the file name, after a period
(e.g., .txt, .docx, and .exe). To make the file names cleaner and prevent users
from making accidental changes to the extensions, these are usually hidden. This
behavior can be changed with this setting.


=== General options General Options

The General tab of the File Options utility allows you to change the general
behavior of the file browsing interface.

General Options determine whether or not multiple windows will appear when
browsing the filesystem. Also, General Options control file opening behavior and
the items displayed on the navigation pane.


=== View options View Options

The View tab allows you to change many appearance options, including showing
hidden files and file extensions.


View options can be used to view hidden files that are invisible to the standard
user. These files are usually system files that the user can only do harm to.
== System System

System is the utility of Control Panel that shows hardware overview, and some
other settings, as noted below.

System

The System properties window can be accessed several ways. We will focus on
opening the Control Panel and clicking the System applet.

ontrol Panel – System (Performance, Remote, Protection) In Windows 10,
Performance is a separate utility • In older versions of windows, Performance is
part of System Properties Remote allows remote access to the computer (via
Remote Desktop) • If you disable it, others may still be able to connect via
third-party applications rotection allows you to enable/disable System Restore
(already mentioned === Performance (virtual memory) Performance (Virtual Memory)

Virtual memory is space reserved on a hard disk for a paging file. A paging file
allows you to run more concurrent applications while reducing the need in RAM
size.

Performance (virtual memory)

Accessing Advanced system settings > Advanced > Performance > Settings allows
the Virtual memory to be adjusted and other performance features to be
optimized.


=== Remote settings Remote Settings

Options on this tab configure whether this computer can be controlled remotely
with Remote Desktop and what users will have that permission.

System Properties – Advanced tab

System protection provides full control over System Restore operations. This can
be configured individually for each drive in the system. Restore points can be
manually created when the system is running well or can be automatically created
when system changes are made in order to provide recovery capability. Most
importantly, please ensure the system is clean of viruses and malware since they
will be included and subsequently restored if you deploy an infected Restore
Point.

System Properties – System Protection tab

Remote settings

Remote settings control remote access programs such as Remote Assistance and
Remote Desktop. These programs provide users with accessibility to their
machines from any internet connected location. Remote Assistance provides
temporary access to external users for troubleshooting PC problems. Remote
Desktop is an invaluable resource for users who telecommute or who are always on
the go. In order for this to work, Remote Desktop needs to be given access
through any firewall. After that, choose which versions of the Remote Desktop
software will be allowed to connect. Finally, select the users that are
permitted to connect and they will be added to the Remote Desktop Users Group.
If there are problems connecting, first check port 3389 on the firewall(s).
Next, be sure the user attempting to access the computer belongs to the Remote
Desktop Users Group.

System Protection – Remote tab


=== System protection System Protection

Manage and create system restore points or revert to previously created restore
points. Restore points save the system configuration and are useful if a change
needs to be reverted.


== Windows Firewall Windows Firewall

An important security addition to Windows, the Windows Firewall protects the
computer by controlling what applications can access the network from this
computer, and also how this computer can be accessed over the network.

Windows Firewall

Windows Firewall is a software-based firewall that is built into Windows and
customized when you select your network type. For Windows 7 and earlier, Home,
Work, or Public security can be selected. For Windows 8 and later, the available
network types are Public or Private security. Public security is the strongest.

Once the automatic configuration is made, access the Firewall configuration to
allow and block access for your programs. For example, Remote Desktop can be
allowed to facilitate remote access. In the firewall, the settings can be
different for each network type. For example, a program can be allowed on the
Private network and blocked on the Public network.

Control Panel – Windows Firewall See the previous section for details about
Windows Firewall

== Power Options Power Options

You can choose what pressing the power button on the computer should do and
configure the monitor and computer power to be reduced after some time of not
being used.

Power options

Power options determine how your machine consumes power. The Power options plans
offer a great deal of power saving options, especially when using a laptop.
There are general plans that may be stricter than you would like, but if dimming
your display when on battery gives you an extra ½ hour, you can probably live
with it.

ntrol Panel – Power Options Allows you to choose how many minutes of inactivity
are required until the computer goes to sleep / turns off the screen • Options
are between one minute and never • Different settings for when the computer is
on battery power and when it is plugged in

Advanced Power Options • Choose what the power button does o Can Sleep,
Hibernate, Shut Down, Turn off the Display, or Do Nothing o Different choices
for when the computer is on battery and when it is plugged into a wall outlet •
  Choose what closing the lid does (on a laptop) o Can Sleep, Hibernate, Shut
  Down, or Do Nothing o Different choices for when the computer is on battery
  and when it is plugged into a wall outlet • Other settings o Turn on fast
  startup (allows you to turn the computer on in a few seconds by saving some
  data to the hard disk) o Choose whether Sleep, Hibernate, and Lock options are
  available  Sleep is a “low power” mode.  The computer is still running and
  will slowly drain the battery if not connected to a wall outlet.   Hibernate
  forces the computer to shut down (but the contents of the RAM are saved to
  disk).  When the computer starts back up, the contents of the RAM are reloaded
  back to memory and the computer resumes as before.  ou can customize
  additional settings for the computer hardware and limit how much power

=== Hibernate Hibernate

Hibernation is a mode that saves the current state of the computer and shuts it
down. When started again, it restores to the same state, but without consuming
power in the meantime.

Hibernate

Hibernate differs significantly from Sleep in that when in Hibernation, the
system will record the system state and all volatile data to the hard disk. In
Hibernation, the system is incapable of any operations until it is powered up.
When it is powered back up, the system will appear exactly as it was before
Hibernation. Laptops often default to this mode in low battery situations.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Your Windows system can be manually Hibernated or put to sleep using the Start
power options. View the example below for some of the Advanced Power Plan
Options. In our example, the highlighted setting indicates that the hard disk
will be turned off after 15 minutes.

Power  Options – Advanced Settings


=== Power plans Power Plans

There are three power plans that can be configured and selected depending on the
current need: Power Saver, Balanced, and High Performance.

Power Plans

Power plans vary between Balanced, High Performance, and Power Saver. The Power
Saver option gives the longest battery life and even spins down hard disks after
a designated period. Each plan is customizable using the Change plan settings
link.

This applet can also create a custom power plan. Here, you can set when to turn
off the display and when to put the computer to sleep. We will now talk about
and discuss the difference between Sleep mode and Hibernation.


=== Sleep/suspend Sleep/Suspend

The Sleep mode doesn’t shut down the computer like Hibernation does, but instead
significantly reduces the power to the components for a quick restart of work
where you left it.

Sleep, Suspend & Standby

Sleep mode saves the system state, open documents, and open programs to memory,
or the hard drive if needed. Power is removed from everything except the memory
and a recoverable portion on the system. The system enters a very low power
state, referred to as standby or suspend mode. In this case, the device can
still perform background operations using the trickle of power sent to the
memory and system. The machine can generally respond from Sleep mode in a few
seconds.

Power Options


=== Standby Standby

The term Standby is sometimes used interchangeably with Sleep, but is not used
in the current Windows versions.


== Credential Manager Other Utilities Credential Manager

Credential Manager is a tool to manage Windows and web credentials in the
corresponding vaults; for example, internet and remote desktop passwords.

Credential Manager

Saving passwords on your device is a risky habit. Windows Credential Manager
provides a more secure method of password management. This is Microsoft’s
preferred tool for storing, deleting, and even editing your credentials for
websites and applications. Network and Certificate-based credentials can also be
managed. Your credentials are encrypted and secured in the Windows Vault at the
user level, and are unavailable to other user accounts. However, a hacker with
elevated access can retrieve the credentials.

Control Panel – Credential Manager Displays a list of stored credentials •
Windows will save usernames/passwords and certificates in the credential manager
• If you’re having trouble logging into a resource, try deleting the credential
and recreating it

== Programs and features #### Programs and Features

You can uninstall and modify applications (programs) and add or remove operating
system features.

Programs and Features

The next applet we will explore is Programs and Features. Here, installed
programs can be modified and removed. Take a look on your own machine and
observe the number of programs installed. If you see any programs that you no
longer use or do not want, select the program and Uninstall it. In Programs and
Features, a user can also Change its setup or Repair the installation for
installed programs.

If you find that you are having problems after installing a Windows Update,
select it by viewing the installed updates and remove the offending update.
However, be careful. It is a good idea to make sure a Restore Point is created
before making changes. This applet also allows you to turn select Windows
features on or off.

Programs and Features
 
Control Panel – Programs and Features View a list of installed programs and
details such as • Program name • Program manufacturer • Size of the program •
Date installed • Option to uninstall the program (will either uninstall in the
background, or launch the uninstall wizard).  You can only uninstall one program
at a time.  • Option to modify or repair the program’s installation (only
available on some programs)

== HomeGroup HomeGroup

HomeGroup is a feature that allows you to easily share files and printers in a
small network. It is only available when you connect to a network and categorize
it as the Home network, and disable it for work and public networks.


HomeGroup

The HomeGroup and the workgroup can be used to share data on small home or SOHO
networks. The workgroup has security advantages that are not present in the
HomeGroup. The HomeGroup shares considerably more resources than the workgroup
because the workgroup computers control access to resources on each machine. A
HomeGroup allows anyone with access to view all of the shared resources on all
devices connected to the group.

 Panel – Homegroup • A Homegroup allows multiple computers on a LAN to share
 data with each other • Homegroups have been discontinued in Windows 10 due to
 having too many issues o Replaced by the Workgroup o The default workgroup name
 is “WORKGROUP” • Can share files, folders, and printers • All computers must be
 set to be part of the same homegroup in order for them to Set the homegroup
 from System Properties

== Devices and Printers Devices and Printers

This screen lists printers, scanners, cameras, monitors, and other connected
peripheral devices, and the settings of these devices can also be accessed.

Devices and Printers

This applet allows you to add or remove printers, check their properties, and
view the queue. In our example below, the default printer is shown. The default
printer was selected using the Alt-click menu.

Many devices automatically add themselves here. Wireless USB devices,
Smartphones, TVs, and even the gateway can appear here. Any device connected
wirelessly or using USB will show up here.

Devices and Printers

Control Panel – Devices and Printers Shows a list of installed printers and
scanners • Name of device • Status of printer (Online, Offline, Disconnected) •
Can Open Print Queue (shows documents that the printer will print, and their
status)

• Can choose to Manage printer (edit printer settings) • Can choose to Remove
printer Can add a printer using a wizard (see previous section on printers)

== Sound Sound

You can manage devices to play and record sounds and configure sounds that the
operating system produces on startup, shutdown, alerts, and prompts.

Sound

The Sound applet provides control over your system sound, audio input
(Recording), audio output (Playback), and all other associated properties.
Sounds linked to system actions can be selected here, such as the sound that
plays when an email is received. The communications tab also controls how system
sounds are altered when VoIP is used on the PC.

Sound Applet

ontrol Panel – Sound Playback Tab • Shows a list of playback devices (speakers
and headphones)

Can double-click on a device to show its properties o Enable/disable device o
Edit name o Edit volume o Edit audio quality • Different types of devices have
different properties

Recording Tab • Shows a list of recording devices (microphones) • Can
double-click on a device to show its properties o Enable/disable device o Edit
name o Edit volume o Edit audio quality • Different types of devices have
different properties Sounds Tab • Allows you to modify the default Windows
sounds for events (Critical Alert, Windows Login,

Communications Tab • Allows Windows to reduce the volume of other sounds when it
detects you making/receiving a phone call (for example, on Skype)

== Troubleshooting Troubleshooting

The Troubleshooting screen of the Control Panel provides a list of wizards to
diagnose and troubleshoot some common issues with hardware and software.

Troubleshooting

The Troubleshooting applet in the Control Panel showcases Windows’
self-diagnostic and repair capabilities. Common problems with the computer’s
Programs, Hardware, Sound, Network/Internet, System, and Security can be fixed
using the built-in troubleshooters. You can also search for troubleshooting tips
for a specific problem.

Puzzling repairs can often be simplified with this tool. Choosing View all shows
all available Troubleshooters including fixes for Blue Screen! Check the View
history to see all automatic repairs. This will help determine if you have a
recurring issue. The applet is also capable of sending Help requests.

Troubleshooting applet

Control Panel – Troubleshooting Windows includes a set of trouble-shooters for
different scenarios Internet • Audio • Printer • Windows Update • Hardware •
Speech • Program Compatibility

se the trouble-shooter • Select the type of trouble-shooter that most closely
matches your issue The wizard will ask you a series of questions • The wizard
will detect problems • It will offer you a set of solutions  o It will show you
the most likely solution first (and ask if you want to apply it) o You can use
the trouble-shooter to apply the solution o After applying the solution, the
trouble-shooter will ask you if the issue was resolved o If it wasn’t resolved,
the trouble-shooter will offer another solution o This will continue until the
issue is resolved or the trouble-shooter has run out of solutions • The
trouble-shooter is only good for basic issues • For example, if you’re having
trouble connecting to the internet, and it’s because your Network Interface is
disabled, the trouble-shooter will suggest that you enable your Network
Interface.  It won’t be able to detect more complicated routing or internet
traffic issues.

== Network and Sharing Center Network and Sharing Center

Here, you can configure network adapters, create new network and dial-up
connections, and configure network file and printer sharing.

Network and Sharing Center

The Network and Sharing Center is at the heart of your network. We will discuss
this in great detail later. For now, remember this is where connection settings
can be viewed or changed in addition to where network problems can be
troubleshooted. Adapter settings and advanced sharing settings can be viewed or
changed. In the example below, we can see error free Status of the Wireless
Adapter.

Network and Sharing Center

ntrol Panel – Network and Sharing Center Shows the network or networks that the
computer is currently connected to • Can set up a new network (such as a VPN or
PPPoE connection) • Can access the internet properties of the network adapter

ng Settings • Different sharing settings can be set for Private, Guest (Public)
or All Networks • Public Folder Sharing: allows the computer to share folders
with others on the network (others can only access folders that are set to
public) • File Sharing Connections: choose whether to require 128-bit encryption
in file sharing (more secure), or whether to allow 40 or 56-bit encryption (less
secure, but allows access to more devices) • Password Protected Sharing: choose
whether to require others to use a username/password to access shared files.
Note that the username/password must be set on the computer providing the shared
files.

== Device Manager Device Manager

This tab lists all hardware connected to the computer, and provides management
for drivers of the devices.

Device Manager

The Device manager is the first place to inspect when there are hardware
problems. The devices are categorized here and are expandable to list the sub
components. Right-clicking them will display a context menu that allows for
device configuration and driver changes. In the example below, there are no
problems. Missing or disabled devices show up as a red X. A yellow question mark
or exclamation point signifies the device is either conflicting with other
hardware or the drivers are not correct. These often show up under Other
Devices. Examine the Properties for the device and check for error codes and
messages.

Device Manager


== BitLocker BitLocker

You can enable or disable BitLocker encryption for fixes and portable disks.


BitLocker

BitLocker is a method for whole drive encryption. BitLocker can encrypt entire
volumes and removable devices. BitLocker works in conjunction with the host’s
TPM (Trusted Platform Model) chip. A passcode or passphrase must be created in
order to unlock the drive if it is moved to another machine. This is a critical
step. If the system crashes and the drive is moved, the drive will be
inaccessible without the passcode and the data will be gone for good.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Control Panel – BitLocker How BitLocker works • Encrypts the entire hard disk
drive volume with an encryption key (a very long password) o The key is stored
to the hard disk drive and encrypted with your login password • When you first
activate BitLocker, the key is randomly generated o You have the option to print
the key, save it to OneDrive, or save it to USB o If you forget your password,
you must use the key to unlock your drive • There are two modes o User
Authentication Mode  The key is encrypted with your password and stored on the
hard drive  When you first activate BitLocker, the key is randomly generated  
To unlock the computer, you must enter your password  BitLocker uses your
password to decrypt the key  BitLocker uses the key to decrypt files on the
drive  If you forget your password, you will be prompted to enter the key
Transparent Mode  The key is stored in the Trusted Platform Module (TPM) • May
also be stored in Active Directory (for Windows Domain users)  You are not
prompted for a key or a password when the computer boots  The most basic parts
of Windows are not encrypted  When you boot your computer, Windows appears to
load like normal (it loads the unencrypted files)  The TPM verifies that the
Windows files have not been modified, and knows that it can trust the Windows
files  You log in with your Windows password  Windows authorizes the TPM to
release the key, and decrypt the remaining files on the drive From the BitLocker
menu • You can see a list of available drives and whether BitLocker is enabled
on each of them • You can choose to allow Windows to automatically unlock the
drive (through the TPM) or

here to save the recovery key o Cloud account o USB flash drive o Save to a file
o Print the key

Can choose to encrypt used disk space (faster) or all disk space (more secure
because it encrypts deleted data)

se the type of encryption mode • New encryption mode o More stable; reduces the
risk of losing your data o Only compatible with Windows 10; if you’re encrypting
a USB drive, don’t choose this option because previous versions of Windows won’t
be able to decrypt it • Compatible mode o Less stable o Compatible with older
versions of Windows

Windows will encrypt the drive
 
You can also access the BitLocker status from the command prompt

== Sync Center Sync Center

Sync Center is a utility to configure offline files. Offline files is a feature
that allows the user to continue working on network files when there is no
current network connection, and synchronize the changes once connected again.

Sync Center

This utility allows selected files and folders to be kept in sync with the
network. The local version of the file is labeled as an offline file and changes
are allowed while not connected to the network. Offline files and folders show a
green sync icon. The Sync Center is only effective when offline files are
enabled in the utility as shown below.

Sync Center and Offline Files

nel – Sync Center • Allows you to sync your Windows settings across multiple
devices • You must be logged in to each device with the same Microsoft account
(or Active Directory
