---
title: 2.6-Explain-common-network-configuration-concepts
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-57
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 2.6-Explain-common-network-configuration-concepts
= 2.6 Explain common network configuration concepts.

Configuration Concepts

For this exam, you should be familiar with the properties and characteristics of
several features of the TCP/IP protocol suite related to addressing on an IP
network and be able to explain them.

Here we will solidify the concepts covered in A+ 220-1001 sub-objective 2.6
“Explain common network configuration concepts”. We will look at the properties
that make TCP/IP the robust protocol set that it is and how TCP/IP is used to
manage networks from the smallest of LANs all the way up to the World Wide Web.

== IP addressing
IP Addressing

IP addresses are numbers assigned to identify devices on a TCP/IP network. There
are several types of addresses described in this section.

IP Addresses

The TCP/IP protocol stack is the foundation of the World Wide Web and most local
networks. Each host or client connecting to a network such as the Web needs a
unique address. Duplication of addresses causes a failure of one or both hosts.

The IP protocol is used for host identification. There are two types of IP
addresses being actively used: IPv4 and IPv6. The original addressing
organization was IPv4 which, while still heavily used today, has exceeded its
capacity to serve the rapidly growing number of internet connected computers and
devices. In 1999, the IANA (Internet Assigned Numbers Authority) began the
deployment of the IPv6 protocol.


=== Static
Static IP address—A static address is one that is set manually by a user or
administrator. A device that is assigned a static address will keep that address
until someone changes the configuration.

 
IP addressing - Static
•
A static IP address doesn’t change
•
A static IP address can be public or private
•
The device has the static IP programmed into its network interface (an interface
can have
multiple static addresses)
•
Programming includes
o Static IP address
o Gateway IP address
o Subnet mask
o DNS server IP addresses (optional)
•
Can create a conflict if two devices on the network have the same IP address
 
=== Dynamic
Dynamic IP address—A dynamic address is one that is automatically assigned,
typically by a router or DHCP server. The next time a device that was
dynamically assigned an IP address joins the network, it may be assigned a
different IP address.

IP addressing – Dynamic
•
When a DHCP device joints the network, it broadcasts a request for an IP address
•
A dynamic IP address can be public or private
•
The DHCP server receives the request and assigns an address to the device from
its pool of IP
addresses
•
The following information is provided
o Static IP address
o Gateway IP address
o Subnet mask
o DNS server IP addresses
o Lease time (how long the device can keep it’s DHCP address before it must
request a
new one)
 

=== APIPA
APIPA—Automatic private IP addressing assigns an IP address to a device that was
not assigned a static or dynamic IP address. The address will be in the
169.254.0.0 network. This is generally not useful, other than being an
indication that the device failed to get an IP address through normal means.
These addresses are also referred to as link local addresses.

APIPA/link local

Best described as Zero configuration networks, APIPA and link local addresses
are assigned to hosts when there is no reachable DHCP server and there is no
manual address assignment. IPv4 uses the address range 169.254.1.0 to
169.254.254.255 and IPv6 uses the block fe80::/64, in other words the address
<!--ID: 1639529002747-->

fe80 and enough zeroes to make 64 bits. You may see a % sign followed by a
number in the IPv6 link local address. This is a Zone ID network identifier.
This is useful as many computers have wired and wireless connections. Each NIC
or device on a network segment is given an ID to determine which interface to
send particular traffic out on. APIPA and link local addresses are
non-routable.

IP Addressing – APIPA / link-local
•
In IPv4
o Automatic Private IP Addressing
o Also known as auto-IP
o When a DHCP device joins the network, it will attempt to obtain an IP address
over
o If the device doesn’t receive a DHCP response, it will assign itself an IP
address in the
range of 169.254.0.0 to 169.254.255.255

The device will select an address in the range at random and query other
network devices on the same segment to ensure that it has chosen a unique
address
o This address is known as a link local address
o A router will not forward traffic from a device with an APIPA address;
therefore, a
device with a link local address won’t be able to reach the internet
o The device will continue to attempt to obtain an IP address over DHCP (and
will
replace its link local address with an DHCP address when obtained)
•
In IPv6
o All devices are required to obtain link local addresses in addition to their
DHCP
addresses
o The IPv6 address is used for Network Discovery and other protocols

=== Link local
Link local—Link local addresses are a specific set of automatically assigned
addresses. In IPv4, it is the APIPA address block of the 169.254.0.0 network. In
IPv6, it is the block of addresses that begin with 1111111010 (FE80). IPv6 link
local addresses remain in place even after another IP address is assigned
manually. IPv4 handles this differently, removing the link local address if
another is assigned.

Other Concepts

There are other network configuration concepts associated with IP addressing.
These impact how your network handles IP traffic.


== DNS
DNS—Domain Name System settings are usually given out via DHCP along with IP
address information, but this can be done manually as well. This allows the user
(client) to resolve domain names to IP addresses in order to perform searches or
lookups. These are usually given out in a primary and secondary fashion for
redundancy purposes.

Gateways and DNS

If known, network clients can access computers on the local network or internet
using its IP address. Internet access is dependent on the configuration of the
Gateway on the network, a device that handles off network requests and forwards
them to the internet. The address of this device is part of the client
configuration as is the DNS server address.

It is improbable that the average person knows the IP address of the sites they
wish to visit or even devices or machines on the network. Name resolution solves
this problem by using a DNS (Domain Name Server) to resolve the IP addresses
into names. A DNS server maintains a list machines along with their IP addresses
and their domain names. For example, a DNS server would have an entry that read
www.mysite.com = 202.22.222.2. With that information, any user can type in the
address using the domain name and the server will look it up and translate the
address. If the name is not known to the server, it will request it from the
other DNS servers known to it. Once a device successfully connects, this
information is cached locally. Don’t forget that a Default Gateway and a DNS
Server must be configured in order for your settings to work properly.

ipconfig all

DNS
 
•
Domain Name Server or Domain Name System
•
DNS translates human-friendly hostnames, to computer-friendly IP addresses
•
The Domain Name System translates friendly names into IP addresses so that
computers and
network devices can identify and connect to the necessary network resources
 
•
A computer resource, especially a website is hosted at a particular IP address
•
Humans can remember websites and hostnames easily.  It is difficult to remember IP
addresses
•
A website or service may change its IP address but keep its name
•
The website or service will update its IP address in the Domain Name System.
DNS allows
users to continue to locate the site or service
•
Multiple hostnames or domain names can correspond to a single IP address.  For
example, a
server with a single IP address may host multiple websites.

== DHCP
DHCP—Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol automatically assigns all of the
settings needed to access resources on your LAN or the Internet. It can provide
IP address, subnet, gateway, and DNS information. If you want to ensure that a
device gets a specific IP address, you can configure a DHCP reservation in the
DHCP server.

Client-side DHCP vs Static Addressing

The most common IPv4 or IPv6 TCP/IP addressing method is DHCP (Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol). On a work network, there is usually an assigned DHCP
server. Residential or SOHO implementations use the router provided by the ISP
to perform this function. DHCP assigns or leases a unique IP address to each
host. The duration of the lease is determined by the network administrator,
otherwise is weekly by default. DHCP will define the internet gateway and Domain
Name Server to be used. This means that your machine may not get the same IP
address when rebooted or otherwise disconnected, however the DNS and Gateway
settings will remain.

The DHCP server has an available pool of addresses available to assign to
clients (hosts) that attempt to connect to the network. The client broadcasts a
UDP discovery packet for an address to all connected networks. All DHCP servers
will offer an address to the client. The client will accept the offer from the
nearest server by requesting a lease and that server will lease that address to
the client.

The address assignment process is identical for both IPv4 and IPv6 addressing
and only the address format will be different. This greatly simplifies network
management as the other option is Static IP addressing. Should you need a client
to maintain a specific IP address, you can create a DHCP reservation in order to
hold that address permanently.

Manual configuration of IP in Windows

Static IP addressing is preferable for Web servers and Internet gateways where
you would like to be able to consistently locate the machine. Any device that is
accessed consistently by users should be statically addressed. Otherwise and
depending on the size of the network, this would be an incredibly labor
intensive task that would require documentation to avoid duplication of
addresses. If it isn’t memorized, look up the Gateway and DNS servers on a
neighboring machine.

DHCP
 
•
DHCP is Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
•
Network devices require IP addresses to communicate with each other
•
A DHCP network device places a DHCP request upon joining the network
•
A DHCP server responds to the request by assigning a DHCP address to the network
device
•
A DHCP response contains the following information
o IP address
o Gateway IP address
o Subnet mask
o DNS servers (optional)
o Lease time
•
The DHCP server keeps track of the DHCP addresses that it assigns
•
When selecting a DHCP address to assign, the DHCP server checks to make sure
that no
other devices have the same address
 
•
We can place a DHCP reservation
o If we want a specific device to always be assigned the same IP address over
DHCP
o We configure a DHCP reservation on the DHCP server

It includes the MAC address of the device and the IP address that we want
o When the device places a DHCP request, the DHCP server checks the reservation
list
and assigns the correct IP address
o IP addresses on the reservation list are never assigned to other devices, even
if the
=== Reservations
== IPv4 vs. IPv6
IPv4 vs. IPv6—IPv4 is the original 32-bit addressing scheme for IP. It allows
for over 4 billion‬ addresses. IPv4 addresses are formatted as four decimal
  number octets separated by periods; for example, 192.168.1.1. When it became
  apparent that IPv4 was running out of addresses, IPv6 was created with 128-bit
  addressing. IPv6 addresses are formatted as eight hexadecimal quartets
  separated by colons; for example, fe80:5e:9acd:a725:5496:aecd:2256:1b98.


IPv4

An IP address consists of 32-bits, separated using a dotted decimal notation
into four octets with dots (periods). The numbers are assigned in binary, where
you could see a number like 11011111.10110010.10011011.00000011. For each octet,
the maximum value is 255 (all 1’s in binary). The binary number is then
converted into decimal numbers that are easier for humans to recognize. The
example above would translate to a decimal value of 13.168.155.3.

Each octet can assign eight binary values of zero or one. A good way to verify
that your TCP/IP protocol stack has been correctly installed with a new network
card is by pinging its loopback address. The IPv4 address is 127.0.0.1 and by
pinging this, you can check the installation and functionality of the
interface.

Loopback IPv4 and IPv6
IPv6

In order to address the inevitable exhaustion of IPv4 addresses, the deployment
of IPv6 began in 1999, providing 340 undecillion or
340,282,366,920,938,463,463,374,607,431,768,211,456 addresses. The IPv6 address
is 128-bits in length and although it is actually a binary address, the use of a
128-bit binary address is impractical for human interpretation. Instead, the
IPv6 is expressed in hexadecimal numbers separated by colons and consists of
eight groups of hexadecimal values. Hexadecimal numbering allows for up to 16
case sensitive values (0-9 and A-F) to be expressed for each digit as opposed to
the standard base 10 decimal system. Each hexadecimal digit represents four
digits or bits of binary. Each of the eight groups of an IPv6 address represents
16 bits (Two four bit values). A typical IPv6 address will look something like
this, 2002:1F93:AF34:DA4C:0000:0000:0000:CADE. For IPv6, the loopback function
is the same as IPv4 using an IPv6 address. This address is represented as 0::1
<!--ID: 1639529002774-->

or even simply ::1.
<!--ID: 1639529002792-->


In IPv6 shorthand notation, groups of zeroes are represented by double colons.
Our example can be written as 2002:1F93:AF34:DA4C:: CADE. Note that the double
<!--ID: 1639529002811-->

colons substituted for three groups of zeroes. Only one set of colons is allowed
in an IPv6 address. Here, the binary value of the first block would be 0010 0000
0000 0010. The Interface Identifier or node address is represented by the last
64-bits of the 128-bit address. In our example, the node is identified as 222 or
binary 11011110.

IPv6 prefix
Public and Private Addresses

The IANA has reserved the following address ranges for private networks. The
address ranges are listed below. The best example of private network deployment
is with SOHO or at home where you are provided a single, public IP address from
an internet service provider (ISP) and use NAT/PAT to assign private numbers to
use the public address for computers and phones.

IPv4

The IANA has reserved the following address ranges for private networks. This
means any address within these ranges is private and non-routable.

10.0.0.0 – 10.255.255.255

172.16.0.0 – 172.31.255.255

192.168.0.0 – 192.168.255.255
IPv6

The address block of fc00::/7 is reserved by IANA for private use as Unique
<!--ID: 1639529002823-->

Local Addresses (ULA). This means that the first block assigned will be
fd00::/8.
<!--ID: 1639529002850-->


IPv4 vs IPv6
 
•
IPv4 is Internet Protocol Version 4, IPv6 is Internet Protocol Version 6
•
Despite their names, no other IP versions are in use
•
IPv4
o Provides a range of addresses in the form of xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
o Provides a range of addresses from 0.0.0.0 to 255.255.255.255
o There are 4.29 billion IPv4 addresses
o We are running out of IPv4 addresses (all IPv4 addresses have been assigned)
o All devices and operating systems support IPv4
•
IPv6
o Provides a range of addresses in the form
xxxx:xxxx:xxxx:xxxx:xxxx:xxxx:xxxx:xxxx
o Addresses are in the form from 0000 to ffff (hexadecimal)
o There are 340,282,366,920,938,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 IPv6 addresses
o Some devices and networks support IPv6, and some don’t.  For example, Microsoft
IPv6 addresses are self-configuring

== Subnet mask
Subnet mask—IPv4 addresses are divided into two sections: network and host. The
subnet mask defines which bits are part of the network (or subnet) address.

Subnet mask vs. CIDR

The original IPv4 design divided the 32-bit address into four 8-bit groups where
each group had a maximum value of 255. In the original IPv4 design, the network
number field was allotted the first eight bits of the address, representing the
network. The remaining 24 bits (the rest) are used to identify the host. While
it could support over 4 billion devices, this format could only support 254
networks and was quickly deemed insufficient. A solution was needed to create
more networks in order to support the rapidly growing number of LANs as internet
and business networks were proliferating. A quick solution was needed!

Subnet masks

Subnet masks were devised to allow more of the 32-bit address to be used to
identify networks. This addressing scheme allows a second set of numbers, in
eight bit blocks that used to be called classes, to identify how many bits of
the address are used to identify the network. The subnet mask is 32-bits long
and formatted in the same way as the IP address. This allows us to use 16-bits
or more for the network address.

The 16-bit mask will use all 1’s for the first 16-bits for the network address,
giving you a hexadecimal representation of 11111111.11111111.00000000.00000000.
The zeroes in this example are available for host identification. In dotted
decimal notation, this is written as 255.255.0.0.

24-bit subnet masks are prevalent in SOHO and residential deployment, giving a
subnet mask of 255.255.255.0. Subnet masks are a quick and painless way to
provide more networks. However the only drawback is quite significant as
switching from a 24-bit subnet mask, providing 254 hosts and one subnet, to a
16-bit subnet allows 65534 hosts on one subnet. This is wasteful in most cases
and only partially addresses the problem.

Subnet Mask
 
•
This is quite possibly the hardest network concept to learn
•
A subnet mask tells us the size of the subnet
•
What is a subnet?  
o A subnet is a network segment behind a gateway (router)
o If a device wants to communicate with another device on the same segment, it
sends
the data directly to that device (a switch can forward the information)
o If a device wants to communicate with another device on a different segment,
it sends
the data directly to the gateway (router)
o All of the devices in your local network are in the same subnet
•
IPv4 Subnets
o A subnet mask is expressed as xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx or /xx
•
How to understand the subnet masks
o You know that a computer can think in terms of 0s and 1s right?
o A number can be written in binary (as 8 digits of 0s and 1s)
o A binary number is 8 bits (8 bits make up one byte)
o For example, the number 255 can be written as 11111111.  The number 254 can be

written as 11111110.
o Why is that?  Look at this table.
Position
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
Value
128
64
32
16
8
4
2
1
 
o The binary number has 8 digits.  Each digit has a different value.  For
example, the
digit on the right has a value of “1”.  The digit on the left (position 8) has a
value of
128.
o We add up the values in each position, where the binary value is 1.
o For example, if we had a binary number of 10110101, what would that number be?
If
we write it in the table below, we can see that the values with “1” are 128 + 32
+ 16 +
osition
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
Value
128
64
32
16
8
4
2
1
Binary
1
0
1
1
0
1
0
1
 
o A single binary number can have a value between 0 and 255.  We can convert
from a
normal number to a binary number or vice versa.
 
o Going back to the subnet mask.  A subnet mask is expressed as xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
or /xx
o The /xx is the number of binary bits used to express the xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
subnet mask
o For example, 255.255.255.0 can be written as
11111111.11111111.11111111.00000000 in
binary form.  That is 24 bits (there are 24 1’s in the number).
o For example, 255.255.255.255.128 can be written as
11111111.11111111.11111111.10000000 in
binary form.  That is 25 bits.
 
o Let’s back track a bit
o Each subnet has a range of IP addresses.  The name of the network is the first
IP
address in that range.
o We want to know how big our subnet is
o Consider the following example
 
 
 
Dot-Decimal Notation
Binary Form
IP address
 
Write the IP address
of the network
(network name) in
Binary
 
Our network name is
192.10.2.138
192.10.2.138
== Gateway
Gateway—A gateway is a router that connects your network to another network,
typically the Internet. When configuring a device on the network, you specify
the internal IP address of the gateway as a default destination to send
traffic.

Gateway
 
•
The default gateway is also the router
•
If a device wants to communicate with another device on the same segment, it
sends the data
directly to that device (a switch can forward the information)
•
If a device wants to communicate with another device on a different segment, it
sends the
== VPN
VPN—A virtual private network is an encrypted connection between two networks or
between a host and a network. When a host connects to a network over a VPN, it
is assigned a separate IP address that is in the network’s address range.

VPN

A Virtual Private Network (VPN) provides networks with an added layer of
security by establishing secure encrypted connections over the public network in
order to protect network traffic from eavesdropping or modification.

VPN
 
•
Virtual Private Network
•
Allows a user to connect to a network from another location (for example if an
employee
works from home)
•
The VPN provider
o Could be a windows/Unix server or could be a router/security appliance
o This device is located inside the network
o VPN users connect to the device remotely
o There are several ways to authenticate users

Username/password

Active Directory

Certificate
o There are several encryption protocols available
•
VPN Traffic
o The remote user receives an IP address on the local network
o The remote device will behave exactly like it is on the local network
o Traffic from the remote device gets packaged and travels inside a “tunnel” to
the local
network
o There is an option for “split tunnel” traffic

Traffic destined for the corporate network (such as access to shared drives,
printers, and e-mail) travels over the VPN

Traffic destined for the internet (such as YouTube) travels over the remote
user’s normal internet connection

Split Tunnel Traffic improves performance because it prevents internet traffic
== VLAN
VLAN—A virtual local area network is a logical subnet, typically configured on a
switch, that acts as a separate subnet. Without VLANs, every device connected to
  a switch would be on the same subnet. By configuring VLANs on the switch, you
  can have devices on that one switch in different subnets or VLANs.

VLAN

Virtual LANs (VLAN) can combine multiple networks into a single VLAN, making
administration easier because the VLAN appears as a simple LAN. A LAN can also
be configured with VLANs in order to isolate departments within an
organization.

VLAN
 
•
A VLAN is a Virtual Local Area Network
•
A VLAN allows us to logically separate a network into multiple networks without
having to
physically install additional equipment
o For example, we can separate user traffic, VoIP traffic, and surveillance
camera traffic
into different VLANs
o We can prioritize traffic from one or more VLANs
•
A managed switch will tag each traffic source with its VLAN and will enforce the
VLAN
o VLAN traffic can also be tagged across a Wide Area Network
•
Each VLAN typically has its own non-overlapping IP subnet
•
Traffic that travels from one VLAN to another must talk to a gateway first
o A concept called a Layer 3 Switch or a Router On A Stick can also handle
traffic
between VLANs, but this is outside the scope of this book
== NAT
NAT—Network address translation is used on a router to translate an IP address
as it passes through the router. It is most often used to translate private IP
address to a public address.




NAT

Network Address Translation (NAT) enables a router to assign private IP
addresses to multiple clients while appearing externally (publicly) as a single
address. This one-to-many method represents the majority of NAT configurations.

NAT
 
•
Network Address Translation
•
See the previous section on NAT
