---
title: 4.1-Compare-and-contrast-cloud-computing-concepts
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 11-01-04
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 4.1-Compare-and-contrast-cloud-computing-concepts
= 4.1 Compare and contrast cloud computing concepts.

Cloud Computing

For this exam, it is important to understand cloud computing and the different
types of cloud computing offerings that exist. Before cloud computing,
scalability was difficult, as users were always restricted by their local
resources. A common example of cloud computing includes online file storage.
Online file storage allows users to store documents, photos, and videos “in the
cloud” without needing to take up storage on their local hard drive. However,
cloud computing covers far more than just file storage. It’s now possible to
move an entire organization’s infrastructure (everything from servers to
networking equipment) to the cloud.

Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! In this edition, we will examine the Cloud
and the wealth of services available through it. A quick caution, when you are
examining services, there is a tendency in the sales community to use Cloud
terminology/buzzwords to describe traditional services in order to make them
sound updated. You will not find these terms discussed here or on the test, but
you may encounter them in life or business.

We will first look at the Cloud service categories as defined by the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Next, we will look at the types of
services available and some of the methods used to make hardware, applications,
databases, and even operating systems run online.

== Common cloud models Cloud Models

As mentioned in the previous section, cloud computing encompasses many different
aspects of computing. We call these aspects cloud models. For this exam, you
will need to know the three most common types of cloud models: IaaS, SaaS, and
PaaS.


Common cloud models

Cloud services are hosted and managed by third party entities that provide most
of the hardware and software required to access their services on demand. These
services need to be broadly accessible and must provide resource pooling.
Storage needs to provide rapid elasticity and be capable of measured service.
There are several service models which are used to describe the level of service
the provider and the customer are responsible for. Think of Cloud service
categories as a stack of service models, with the lowest layers providing the
foundation of total vendor management responsibility. Here is an example.

Cloud services

=== IaaS IaaS

Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) can be thought of as a virtual data center.
As its name suggests, Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) providers allow clients
to build their entire infrastructure in the cloud. Infrastructure includes items
such as servers, firewalls, routers, and switches. In an IaaS environment,
clients are entirely responsible for managing, maintaining, and patching
operating systems and applications. Examples of IaaS providers include
DigitalOcean® and Rackspace®.

IaaS

IaaS stands for Infrastructure as a Service.  IaaS is at the foundation in terms
of vendor responsibility. The vendor supplies virtual access to the hardware,
including virtual servers that can run the customers, server software, and
applications on demand. This configuration also can be used to host websites and
email servers. As the name implies, the vendor supplies the Infrastructure and
the customer supplies the applications and data. Depending on the agreement, the
vendor may or may not supply the operating system(s).

Infrastructure as a Service
 
Rent physical infrastructure on a monthly or hourly basis No upfront costs or
hardware maintenance costs No cost for internet, power, heating, cooling, etc.
Customer will see each system hardware component and is responsible for
configuring them.
 
Examples include Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure
 
=== SaaS SaaS

In recent years, there has been a major shift from locally installed software to
Web-based software. Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) has become a popular choice for
organizations because it allows them to access their programs anywhere an
Internet connection is available. SaaS can be described as any program that is
accessed via the Web and not locally installed. Examples of SaaS providers
include Google Apps® and Dropbox®.


SaaS

SaaS stands for Software as a Service. In this case, the vendor supplies and
manages everything from the hardware to the applications that are used. This is
a total solution as users and developers alike can access and modify the
content. Different Cloud computing types offer different levels of accessibility
as you will see next.

SaaS Software as a Service
 
Software is licensed on a per hour or per month basis.  The software is
centrally hosted.   The customer does not manage software, hardware, or
licenses.
 
Examples include Salesforce
 

=== PaaS PaaS

Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) provides a platform for developers to build their
own applications. PaaS providers will handle everything on the back-end,
including servers, operating systems, and development tools. This allows
developers to focus on creating, building, and managing their applications.
Examples of PaaS providers include Google App Engine® and AWS Elastic
Beanstalk®.

PaaS

PaaS stands for Platform as a Service. It is quite similar to IaaS but provides
two additional value-added services, making it the second layer in the Cloud
Services model. For example, consider a platform for collaborative software
development that maximizes the workflow regardless of the data source of an
application. This means dissimilar sources can be used and proprietary
application data can be used in the creation of software. This type of platform
is useful for supporting multiple developers and automating the testing process.

PaaS Platform as a Service
 
Service between IaaS and SaaS
 
A “platform” is licensed per hour or per month.  Customer does not manage
hardware directly but can run any application they want.  Advantage is ability
to run applications without having to build the underlying infrastructure.

=== Public vs. private vs. hybrid vs. community Other Considerations

    Public cloud—When you hear people use the term the cloud, they are typically
    speaking of the public cloud. The public cloud refers to anything that is
    delivered across the open Internet. When you interact with applications such
    as Dropbox®, you are accessing that program via the public cloud.

    Community cloud—It can be easy to get the terms community and public
    confused, but in a discussion about cloud technologies, they mean different
    things. A community cloud is not available to everyone in the public in the
    way a public cloud is, rather it should be thought of as a shared cloud
    being used by multiple organizations. Private clouds are very costly to
    implement and maintain, but some organizations are not comfortable using a
    cloud that is available to the entire public. In these scenarios, a
    community cloud is a great option.

    Private cloud—Private clouds are certainly the most secure cloud option, but
    they come at a high price. Private clouds give organizations flexibility
    while ensuring that they still have 100% ownership of their data and
      infrastructure.

    Hybrid clouds—Private, community, and public clouds can be combined to
    create a hybrid cloud. Hybrid clouds can be beneficial when some data need
    to be kept in a private cloud, but the cost to implement a private cloud for
    all of the data may be too high.

Public vs. Private vs. Hybrid vs. Community

Public Cloud

The Public Cloud is available to all parties over the Internet. There are
numerous companies providing publicly accessible services such as email and
storage.  Private Cloud

A Private Cloud is internal to a company or organization and provides access
only to those on the premises or connected via VPN. Private Clouds are the most
secure type.  Hybrid Cloud

A Hybrid Cloud is a combination of public and/or private Cloud networks. These
are often offered by hosting providers along with dedicated hosting.  A company
may use the private internal Cloud for storage of confidential communication and
the external Cloud for email and web services.  Community Cloud

A Community Cloud is used by a collaborative group that shares resources for a
common goal. This could be a medical group, insurance company, or any group of
entities that has a shared objective. These Cloud types tend to be bigger than
Private Clouds but smaller than the Public Cloud.

Here is a graphic representation of the main Cloud computing types.

Cloud computing public – private Cloud Requirements

In order to qualify as a Cloud compatible service, the Infrastructure, Platform,
and Software must meet the NIST guidelines listed below. These guidelines are
the minimum requirement as additional services can be provided by a Cloud
service.


A public cloud is available to the general public.  The resources inside a
public cloud are shared amongst all customers, which improves efficiency and
reduces cost.  Multiple customers may run on the same physical server without
realizing it (cloud software is supposed to prevent data leaks between
customers)
 
Private Cloud A private cloud is built by one organization for its internal use.
A large organization can use a private cloud to share resources amongst
different departments.
 
Hybrid Cloud A mix of a private cloud and a public cloud.
 
A company may decide that some applications are too sensitive to host with a
public cloud, or that some applications will not run properly when they are off
site, but would like to take advantage of the public cloud.
 
Applications that can run on the public cloud are placed there, and remaining
applications are placed on a private cloud.
 
The private cloud and public cloud are

Like a private cloud except that infrastructure is shared by several
organizations.  Several organizations pool their computing

Cloud Benefits
 
There are five essential characteristics of a cloud computing service •
On-demand self service • Broad network access • Resource pooling • Rapid
elasticity • Measured service
 
== Shared resources Shared Resources

A major upside to virtualization is that it provides flexibility. An example of
this flexibility is shared resources. If there is a need for more resources,
hardware can be combined and shared. One physical host machine with a lot of
resources (memory, storage capacity) can have its resources shared among
multiple virtual machines. This resource sharing can occur both internally and
externally.

Allow multiple users to share computer resources, including • File storage •
Databases • Processing • Network connectivity
 
=== Internal vs. external == Rapid elasticity Rapid Elasticity

It’s not always clear how much of a particular resource you are going to need
when setting up a new environment. It’s entirely possible (and quite common) for
your resource needs to grow as the organization grows. An organization that
started with five servers might triple their server needs in several years.
Virtualization makes it possible to quickly add new servers as you need them
without the hassle of purchasing new hardware each time. This is known as rapid
elasticity.


Rapid Elasticity

Rapid Elasticity is the ability of a Cloud solution to scale its service level
to meet the demand. This can take the form of adding storage space or user
capacity seamlessly without interruption or the need to physically change
hardware.

Rapid Elasticity Ability to instantly add or remove capacity.  A resource can
scale on demand.
 
Scaling can happen automatically (via a script that detects an overload) or
manually
 

== On-demand On-Demand

Just as a company may see its need for servers to increase, they may also see it
decrease. Some companies may require additional Web servers to handle traffic
around Christmas time when they are the busiest. However, when traffic decreases
the rest of the year, it doesn’t make financial sense to keep paying for these
additional resources. Virtualization can provide on-demand access to resources
so organizations can simply pay for the resources they need as they need them.

On-demand

On-demand is used to describe a service that is available at any time. The
redundancy that is available to Cloud-based solutions makes 100% availability
(uptime) a reality.  Resource pooling

On-Demand A user can obtain cloud services “on demand” from a control panel
 

== Resource pooling Resource Pooling

Resource pooling is the concept of combining the resources of physical servers
and making them available in a pool. When this is done on a large scale (imagine
Amazon®) it allows customers to use and pay for only the resources they need
from the pool at a given time.

Resource pooling allows providers to share and spread the available resources
across multiple consumers or companies. Resources are scaled dynamically and
imperceptibly to each user as needed. This provides the maximum utilization of
resources while providing the expected levels of service.  Measured / Metered
service

Resource Pooling Resources are shared across multiple customers.  When a
resource is released by one customer, it can be provided to another
 

== Measured service Measured Service

When purchasing services from a cloud provider, you may be billed based on
measurements such as Web traffic or uptime. This type of billing process is
known as a measured service.

Measured service is the practice of analyzing, measuring, or metering the amount
of resources used by an individual or organization. This is used for billing or
for capping instances of over the limit consumption. This covers quantifiable
  elements such as bandwidth, storage, or other services.

Measured Services The cloud provider can measure the amount of services used by
a customer.  A user is billed for


== Metered Metered

A metered service differs from a measured service because rather than being
interested in how long your Web application has been running or some other
service measurement, they base the pricing off of the amount of processing
resources you require.

A cloud provider can meter or limit the amount of resources a user can use.
Important because a user could request too many resources at once, which could
impact

== Off-site email applications Off-Site Email Applications

For many years, organizations had to have an on-premise email server to send and
receive email messages. Thanks to cloud computing, this is no longer a
requirement. While there are still plenty of organizations that prefer to use an
on-premise solution, many organizations are not following the trend and moving
their email services to the cloud. There are numerous options when it comes to
off-site email applications, but one common example is Microsoft making Outlook®
available in the cloud.

Off-site email applications

Even with instant messaging taking up much of the routine communication between
known users, email continues to be the most reliable method of communication.
There are public online email providers, such as Gmail or Yahoo, which are
excellent for non-sensitive communication. Off-site email applications, such as
Microsoft Outlook, can provide hosted email services that are accessible only to
a single organization.

Off-Site E-mail Applications
 
There are three main cloud e-mail services
 
G Suite Provided by Google Billed on a per-user per-month license Includes the
following services • E-mail (Gmail) • File Sharing (Google Drive) • Calendar
(Google Calendar) • Hangouts (Chat and Collaboration) E-mail can be accessed via
a web app or via an

Provided by Microsoft Billed on a per-user per-month license E-mail can be
accessed via a web app or via an e-mail client, such as Outlook
 
Office 365 Provided by Microsoft Billed on a per-user per-month license Includes
all the features of Exchange plus each user can install Office 365 on up to five
devices Includes • Office 365 includes Excel, Word, Outlook, PowerPoint, Access,
and Skype • Skype allows users to communicate via messaging, voice, and video •
Store files in the cloud with OneDrive • SharePoint allows a company to create
internal websites

Integration with active directory Data Leak Prevention • Message encryption ==
Cloud file storage services Cloud File Storage Services

Cloud file storage has made accessing files much easier than in the past. This
is because many cloud file storage services use synchronization apps, which
allow users to access the same version of their files on all of their multiple
devices.

Cloud file storage services

Cloud storage is available from the major OS and mobile device manufacturers.
iCloud provided by Apple, Google Drive by Google, and Microsoft’s OneDrive are a
few well-known examples.

Cloud Storage
 
There are five main cloud storage services
 
Google Drive Provided by Google Free for personal use Pay for business use on a
per-user per month basis (integrates with Google Apps) Files are available
through a web interface Can share files and folders with internal and external
users
 
One Drive Provided by Microsoft Free for personal use Pay for business use on a
per-user per month basis (integrated with Office 365) Files are available
through a web interface, and also through a downloadable app Allows you to sync
files between your computer and the cloud Can share files and folders with
internal and

SharePoint Provided by Microsoft Pay per-user per-month Available with an Office
365 business license Allows you to create internal corporate websites,
accessible through a web interface  Can share files and folders with internal
and external users
 
Amazon WorkDocs Provided by Amazon Web Services Files are available through a
web interface, and also through a downloadable app Allows you to sync files
between your computer and the cloud Can share files and folders with internal
and external users
 
Dropbox / Box Cloud apps that provide file sharing Free for personal use Pay for
business use Can share files and folders with internal and

=== Synchronization apps Synchronization apps

Each cloud storage option uses a proprietary sync app based on your account. The
synced data can be accessed using a browser and your account information. There
are also third-party sync apps that will work with several cloud storage
services.


== Virtual application streaming/cloud-based applications


Virtual Application Streaming/Cloud-Based Applications

Having the ability to access your applications from anywhere you have an
Internet connection has become an absolute must for most people. Virtual
application streaming and cloud-based applications have made this possible. A
cable provider is no longer required to watch television, as it can be streamed
through a cloud streaming service like Neflix® or Hulu®.

Virtual application streaming/cloud-based applications

Cloud-based applications use software installed only on the cloud server. These
apps are accessed through a web browser without requiring any local
installation.

A hybrid form of this technology is streaming where a small portion of the app
is installed locally and the majority of the process is running on the cloud.
This allows a streaming app to setup the connection and its parameters locally,
enabling quality adjustments to be made based on the connection properties.

Creates a system called “application virtualization” Allows a user to run an app
regardless of the type of computer system he is using How?  • The app runs on a
Citrix server • The user runs a “plug in” on his computer that connects to the
server • The server streams the application through the plugin to the user over
the internet Advantages • Application will operate on any type of computer •
Application data is stored centrally on Citrix server and can be backed up
Disadvantages • Requires internet to function • Licensing costs associated with
Citrix
 
Amazon WorkSpaces Cloud Desktop Service User “desktops”, files, applications,
and computing resources are stored in the Amazon cloud A user can install the
client on their Windows, iOS, Apple, or Android device and connect to their
desktop The desktop is in the cloud, so a user can connect to it from multiple
locations, and begin Integrates with Active Directory and other authentication
protocols WorkSpaces allows a customer to scale a desktop to hundreds or
thousands of users instantly Customer is billed for each WorkSpace in use on an
hourly basis; customer is only billed for WorkSpaces when they are actually in
use
 
Remote Desktop Services A central server stores user desktops, applications, and
settings Server can be hosted in the cloud or on location, but must stay
operating A user can connect to the server via a Remote Desktop Protocol from
any Windows device Requires a per-user license (CAL) to access the server
 
Virtual NIC/SDN Software Defined Networking Allows multiple virtual machines to
communicate with each other as if they are separate physical machines on a
network The networking elements are handled by a computer server instead of by
dedicated network equipment (switches and routers)

=== Applications for cell phones/tablets Applications for Cell Phones/Tablets

Cloud-based applications are not just for computers; they can also be accessed
on cell phones. One example of this is Spotify®. It’s not necessary to use all
of your cell phone or tablet’s storage to store hundreds of songs because they
can now be streamed directly from the cloud.

Applications for cell phones/tablets

Each OS will have a preferred download location for apps. This ensures optimal
compatibility with the device and software. For example, many of the apps used
on cell phones and tablets are different from those used on laptops and desktops
regarding how they use available resources. You may see the option to download
the desktop or mobile version of the software.

=== Applications for Laptops/desktops Applications for Laptops/Desktops

While many people still choose to download and install programs like Microsoft
Word®, Powerpoint®, and Excel® locally on their laptop or desktop, it’s no
longer required. Many applications are now available for use from the cloud in a
SaaS-based model. The entire suite of Microsoft Office products, for example, be
used entirely via the Web with Office 365®.


== Virtual desktop Virtual Desktop

Thanks to virtualization, it’s possible to have multiple virtual desktops
running on one physical machine. These machines operate similar to a physical
desktop, but all of the hardware is virtualized. For example, just as a physical
computer needs a network interface card (NIC) to connect to a network, a virtual
desktop uses a virtual NIC. The virtual NIC performs the same functions that a
physical NIC, but it’s software-based rather than hardware-based.

Virtual desktop

A virtual desktop can be provided as part of a cloud infrastructure. In this
case, the cloud service provider’s hypervisor presents a virtual desktop to a
client using Virtual Desktop infrastructure (VDI). This desktop will perform
according to the base configuration and any modifications called for by the
user’s credentials. This is considered to be a persistent VDI.

Once connected, the integration is seamless and the user is not limited in their
capabilities. When a hypervisor allows guest or non-credentialed access, the VDI
will consist of a generic configuration and any changes will not be saved. This
is considered to be a non-persistent VDI.


=== Virtual NIC Virtual NIC

Hypervisors need at least one virtual network interface card (VNIC). Multiple
VNICs can be created in a hypervisor and it is advisable to create multiple
VNICs when supporting multiple virtual clients.
