Operating System Types

An operating system controls and coordinates all the elements of a computer. It controls many functions that are necessary to use the computer, such as hardware management, file system, and user interface.

The workstation operating systems in the scope of the exam are:

    Windows
    MacOS
    Linux

Cell phones and other mobile devices also have operating systems. The scope of the exam is:

    Windows
    Android
    iOS
    Chrome OS

32-bit vs. 64-bit

Operating systems need to manage the hardware, and there are different operating system versions for different hardware. One important difference is CPU architecture that differs in bits. Historically, there were 8-bit and 16-bit computers. Currently, 32-bit and 64-bit computers are widely used.

The bit length refers to the number of bits that is used for memory addresses. For instance, 64-bit computers use 64 bits for memory address.
RAM Limitations

Computer architectures with different numbers of bits can support different amounts of memory. For instance, when using 32 bits for memory addresses, the highest number would be:

1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 = 4,294,967,295

That means that the maximum size of memory a 32-bit computer can use is 4 gigabytes.

With 64 bits, the highest address in memory would be 18,446,744,073,709,551,616, and the maximum size of memory this architecture can use is 16 exabytes. This number is way beyond memory addressing needs for the foreseeable future. In practice, the most memory supported by a Windows workstation operating system is 2 terabytes.
Software Compatibility

Most operating systems will have a 32 and 64-bit version. The 32-bit version may be referred to as x86, and the 64-bit version as x64. In most cases, the hardware is backward compatible, meaning that you can install a 32-bit OS on 64-bit hardware, but not vice-versa.

Applications can also come in different versions. You will need a 64-bit OS on a 64-bit CPU to run a 64-bit application.
Workstation Operating Systems

Workstation operating systems are designed to be used on a desktop or a laptop computer by one person at a time. These operating systems provide a convenient graphical user interface (GUI) and access to files and applications on the computer.
Microsoft Windows

Microsoft Windows is the most widely used workstation operating system. It can be installed on a wide variety of compatible hardware from many manufacturers and it is commonly used in homes, schools, and offices.
Apple Macintosh OS

Apple MacOS is the operating system designed to run on Apple workstations. It is included with every Macintosh computer and is the second most widely used workstation OS.
Linux

Linux is a kernel, the core of the operating system. Interfaces and applications can be added to the kernel. These pre-configured combinations are known as distributions. This flexibility allows users to create various flavors of systems for different cases. A distribution can have an extensive graphical user interface (GUI), like Ubuntu, or be better adapted to high performance server tasks, like Red Hat.
Cell Phone/Tablet Operating Systems

Phones and tablets are widely used, growing in hardware and performance, and raise the need for complex, powerful, yet convenient operating systems.
Microsoft Windows

Microsoft has discontinued its operating system for mobile phones. Tablets from different hardware manufacturers support Windows, and they run the full version of Windows 10.
Android

Android is an operating system developed by Google specifically for mobile devices. It is based on the Linux kernel and is free and open source. Many devices from different manufacturers around the world make phones and tablets that run the Android operating system. It is the most used mobile OS.
iOS

iOS is the operating system on Apple’s iPhones and iPads. It cannot be installed on devices not manufactured by Apple.
Chrome OS

Chrome OS is not widely used on tablets, but mostly on netbooks. These are lightweight laptops that are intended mostly for using services over the Internet and for web browsing.
Vendor-Specific Limitations

Once an operating system is installed, it can continue running. But there are some limitations that you need to keep in mind and consider updating.
End-of-Life

When an operating system reaches the end-of-life phase by its developer, there will be no more updates, patches, or technical support. There will probably be no more applications developed or supported for this OS version.
Update Limitations

When the OS developer stops supporting the version, there will be no more security patches released for that OS version. As new vulnerabilities get discovered, this may leave the computer with an outdated operating system exposed to security risks.
Compatibility

Applications that are available for one operating system may be not available for others. The developer of the application may limit its efforts to only one operating system. Some applications may be available for MacOS and Windows (for example, Microsoft Office). Some applications may be available for MacOS, Windows, and Linux (for example, Google Chrome). In any case, these are different installation files of similar software.

Another compatibility concern may be caused when updating an operating system to a newer version. New versions of operating systems may cause issues with previously installed hardware and applications. Many large organizations choose not to update their operating systems without thorough testing of the new version with the existing hardware and business-critical software.
Microsoft Windows
Versions

Windows 7, 8, 8.1, and 10 have many elements in common, but there are also some differences in what each provides.
Windows 7

File management—Windows Explorer is the utility to manage the files on the computer.

Libraries—Libraries showed files of a specific type in one place, even though they were stored in different locations on the computer. Default libraries are Documents, Pictures, Videos, and Music. This is the default location for Windows Explorer on Windows 7.

Aero—Provides visual enhancements to the desktop and GUI experience. Requires a video card with enough performance for full support.
Windows 8

Start screen—The Start Menu has been replaced with the Start Screen. This is a screen with tiles for installed applications and system menus.

Windows Store—This is an online store for downloading and purchasing new software.

Microsoft Accounts for sign-in—In addition to local accounts, a Microsoft online account can be used to login. This allows transferring appearance and system settings between computers.

Settings—The most-used user settings became available in a separate Settings menu.

Control Panel—This allows more system configuration and is still available.

Recommended multi-touch display screen—To emphasize that the operating system can be used on tablets and allow advanced GUI interaction, Microsoft has recommended that a multi-touch display be used with Windows 8.

Libraries—Introduced in Windows 7, libraries are still available, but not enabled by default. Instead, the folders Documents, Pictures, Videos, and Music are now normal folders that are created for each user.
Windows 8.1

Refinements—Windows 8.1 is a more refined version of Windows 8, with no fundamental changes. Most enhancements are related to the user interface, making it easier to use, especially on computers without touch displays.
Windows 10

Cortana— This is a personal assistant you can talk to by voice or typing, and get a response in text or speech. It can set reminders, calendar appointments, and answer questions using the Bing search engine.

Start menu—It combines the start menu of Windows 7 with a panel similar to the Windows 8 start screen, and doesn’t obstruct the whole screen and the desktop.
Corporate vs. Personal Needs

Microsoft Windows is the most popular workstation OS for both personal and corporate use. Although they have a very similar look and feel, the Professional Editions allow more efficient and secure use in corporate environments and offer additional features.
Domain Access

This allows access to the network domain. The computer will be registered on the domain and domain users can be used to log in.
BitLocker

This is a drive encryption utility. All data on a disk is encrypted to prevent unauthorized access, which may be especially useful on laptops that may leave the protected office environment and may be lost or stolen.
Media Center

Available on Windows 7 Home Premium, Windows Media Center is a player for slideshows, videos, and music from files, optical drives, local networks, and selected streaming services.
BranchCache

Beneficial in corporate environments with multiple branch offices, this creates a local cache of files from file servers and web servers for quicker access.
EFS

Standing for Encrypting File System, this is a file system feature that can be configured to encrypt volumes, folders, and files. This protects data from an attacker with physical access to the computer.
Desktop Styles/User Interface

Windows versions in the scope of the exam, between Windows 7 and Windows 10, provide a similar user experience. The important differences are Aero, Start Menu and Start Screen differences, and the Settings menu.

Windows also offers different interfaces: keyboard and mouse entry, touch screen, and Cortana voice recognition.



Installation and Upgrades

To start using an operating system, it needs to be installed on the computer first. To start the installation process, the computer needs to be booted with the installation media.
Boot Methods

A boot method allows the user to select how to boot a computer and what media to use. There are multiple ways to boot a computer.
Optical Disc (CD-ROM, DVD, Blu-ray)

A computer may have a built-in drive to read optical discs. A computer can be booted from this device with an installation disc inserted. This is a very common way to install an operating system on a computer.
External Drive/Flash Drive (USB/eSATA)

An external device may be connected to a computer from which to boot. There are many types of external devices, for example: external optical drive, external hard disk, and external flash drive.

Common interfaces used to connect the external drives are USB and eSATA. A USB flash drive is a very common way to install an operating system.
Network Boot (PXE)

Preboot eXecution Environment (PXE) allows the user to boot from network resources. The computer that boots will need to be connected to a network. The network and the remote server that hosts the bootable image need to be configured.

This is a common way to install an operating system in a corporate environment, where network and server resources are available, and it allows a user to quickly set up many computers similarly.
Internal Fixed Disk (HDD/SSD)

An internally connected hard disk may be used from which to boot. The disk may include the operating system installation image or have the operating system installed. This is the most common way to boot a computer after the operating system installation was completed.
Internal Hard Drive (Partition)

It’s important to distinguish between a hard disk and a partition. In many simple configurations, there is one bootable partition on a disk. But one disk can have more than one partition, as it may be useful to have different operating systems on the same computer (multiboot). Also, one logical partition can span across multiple physical hard disks.
Installation Types

Depending on the current state of the computer, available hardware and environment, and desired setup, there are multiple ways to install an operating system.

Unattended installation—This requires preparation ahead of time and best suited for cases where many computers need to be installed with the same configuration. Requires a special server with the installation image and the installation script.

In-place upgrade—This is an installation method that installs a newer operating system over an older one. Depending on the OS and versions, it may preserve the settings, files, and applications.

Clean install—This installation disregards previous data at the destination. It can be used if the computer doesn’t have any operating system installed or if the intent is to completely delete the previous operating system, files, applications, and settings.

Repair installation—Some operating systems provide this option. It is usually initiated by booting with the installation media of the same version of operating system that was previously installed, then selecting the repair option from the menu. It rewrites system files and settings, while keeping the user files. This mode may be useful for repair purposes, if the installed operating system is not bootable, or shows serious issues that can’t be fixed otherwise.

Multiboot—This method uses a boot manager to install multiple operating systems on a single computer. The boot manager maintains the boot configurations and lets the user select what operating system to boot when starting the computer. It’s recommended to install separate operating systems on separate hard disks, or at least separate logical partitions.

Remote network installation—PXE network boot can use a remote server with the operating system’s installation files to install the OS on the computer. Depending on the configuration of the server, the installation process may require selecting installation options, just like booting from a CD, or be an unattended installation.

Image deployment—If many computers have identical hardware and need identical operating systems, settings, and applications installed, it can be accomplished with image deployment. There are different software tools for this task, but usually the process involves the following steps:

    Select one computer.
    Perform a clean installation of the desired operating system, configure, and install applications.
    Create the image from this computer.
    Make this image available on the network or portable media.
    Copy the image to other computers.

Recovery partition—Some operating systems provide an option to create a recovery partition during the installation. It will be a bootable partition that can later be used and contains diagnostic and repair tools, or may be used for a repair installation.

Refresh/restore—If configured beforehand, it may be possible to restore the operating system to a restore point. It is recommended to create a restore point before significant configuration changes and software installations. If something unexpected happens, the settings may be reverted.
Partitioning

Partitioning creates one or more logical drives on a physical disk. Each partition can be separately formatted and have a separate file system. In Windows, each partition can have a separate drive letter.

Dynamic—This is a disk with a more complex configuration that doesn’t have the limitations of a basic disk. It allows creating partitions that can span multiple physical hard disks (software RAID).

Basic—This is the most common disk type, separated into logical partitions.

Primary—You can have only one logical drive. Windows can only boot from a primary partition, so at least one is required.

Extended—You can have more than one logical drive.

Logical—A logical drive is represented by a drive letter in Windows. Make sure you distinguish between disk, partition, and logical drive. These can be assigned one-to-one in the simplest configuration, but are not limited to one.

GPT—A GUID Partition Table contains information on how the disk is partitioned. Compared to MBR, it supports larger drives, and more partitions per drive.
File System Types/Formatting

The file system allows storing, managing, and accessing files on a partition. An operating system usually supports different file systems, and a partition needs to be formatted with a specific file system before usage.

ExFAT—This is designed for small flash and SSD drives, optimized for performance and media file storage.

FAT32—Providing very basic features, it is supported by many operating systems. Supports partitions up to 2 TB in size.

NTFS—This is much more advanced than FAT32, supported by all modern Windows versions. NTFS allows users to set and manage permissions for files and folders for specific users and groups, making it very useful for secure network file sharing. Additionally, it provides indexing (for faster file search), compression, and encryption on the file system level.

CDFS—This is a file system for CDs and DVDs.

NFS—This stands for Network File System, used for file access over a network between systems. Mostly used in servers, and less in workstations.

ext3, ext4—These are used by Linux. Ext4 is an updated version that supports larger partitions, a larger number of files, and improves performance.

HFS—This is used natively by MacOS.

Swap partition—Swap is a Linux partition that is used when the computer runs out of physical RAM. Data from RAM overflows to the swap partition. It reduces the performance, but allows more applications to run at once.

Quick format vs. full format—These are two ways of formatting a partition. Quick format only changes the file system records, so the disk appears empty. Full format also rewrites the previous files, making it harder to restore previous files, and may detect some surface errors on the disk.
Other Considerations

Here are some other considerations to keep in mind when installing and configuring the operating system.
Alternate Third-Party Drivers

Drivers used in Windows installations that have been tested and approved by Microsoft are referred to as signed drivers. When installing device drivers, signed drivers should always be used; however, you may find situations where the driver is an unsigned driver (third-party driver). Before installing an unsigned driver, verify the source to ensure that it is valid.
Workgroup vs. Domain Setup

You will need to know how to set up a workgroup and set up a system as part of a domain. A workgroup could be a small department in a larger organization, or more likely a home user. Setting up a home workgroup is an easy way to allow printer sharing and file sharing with family. Businesses would more than likely use a domain controller that would provide secure, centralized logins to a very large group. This centralized facility simplifies managing a large network.
Time/Date/Region/Language Settings

During the installation of the operating system, some regional settings can be changed. These include local time and time zone, region, and language. Most of these settings can be changed later, after the installation, but not all operating systems will allow changing the interface language without reinstalling.
Driver Installation, Software, and Windows Updates

Understand the importance of keeping your system up to date, specifically relating to security. Know the procedures for installing drivers, using 32-bit drivers on x86 systems and 64-bit drivers on x64 systems. Be familiar with the function of the Device Manager and how it relates to drivers.

Windows Updates are performed by running the Check for updates utility. These updates will frequently cover other installed Microsoft software, like Office, and development tools. Other software updates need to be checked for and installed separately. Windows updates can be configured to run automatically.
Factory Recovery Partition

For computers that come with a recovery partition, you are expected to know how to use this to implement a system recovery. Also understand how partitions can be hidden.
Boot Drive

For each operating system, understand the procedure for partitioning and formatting drives. Know how to determine which partition is the active partition.
Hardware Compatibility

Ensure that the system’s hardware is supported to install and configure the desired operating system. The essential BIOS, CPU, and RAM need to support the installation. The hardware should have supported drivers to be used optimally by the OS.
Application Compatibility

Between 32-bit and 64-bit, and also the versions of operating systems, verify that the desired applications are compatible and will run successfully. Understand the compatibility mode.
OS Compatibility

To upgrade the OS version, there must be an upgrade path. When a new OS is released, there is a lot of effort put in to allow upgrades from previous versions. There may be some limitations that won’t allow an upgrade. For instance. a 32-bit OS can’t be upgraded to 64-bit. There are cases of fundamental feature changes; for instance, a new version may not support the file system used by the previous operating system. In these cases, only a clean install would allow you to use the newer operating system instead of the old one.
Microsoft Command Line Tools (scenario)

You are expected to have a working knowledge of basic command line tools listed below and be able to recommend their use when given a scenario.
Navigation

These commands are used to navigate the file system.

dir—gives a listing of a directory.

cd—change directory used.

cd ..—move one level up in the directory structure.
Other Tools

These are some other commands and command line utilities for networking, file, system, and disk management.

ipconfig—displays configuration of network adapters.

ping—tests reachability of a remote computer over the network.

tracert—displays what network devices a packet goes through to reach a remote computer.

netstat—displays network statistics on data transfers, ports, and applications.

nslookup—resolves name to IP address, for DNS troubleshooting.

shutdown—shut down or restart the computer. Allows options like delayed restart.

dism—Deployment Image Servicing and Management tool to mount and service Windows image files.

sfc—System File Checker tool checks the status and versions of system files.

chkdsk—will verify the file system of a volume and fix logical file system corruption.

diskpart—tool for managing disks, partitions, and volumes.

taskkill—used to kill system processes given the process ID number PID.

gpupdate—manually refresh the domain group policies applied to the computer or the user.

gpresult—displays the current group policies and their status.

format—create a file system on a storage device.

copy—make a copy of one or more files.

xcopy—copy command with numerous options.

robocopy—replaces xcopy, has numerous options.

net use—connect or map a network share.

net user—manage users.

[command name]/?—adding the /? parameter at the end of a CLI command will display the list of command options and parameters, with their short descriptions.
Command Availability

Just like system utilities in the GUI, the CLI commands need to be run with the right privileges. Usually, displaying the information can be done with standard privileges, but changes to the system require that you run the CLI as administrator first.


Microsoft OS Features and Tools (scenario)

Make sure you can apply the following features and tools when given typical user scenarios. Microsoft puts all the various tools needed to manage a system on a single screen to simplify the process.

On Windows Vista, to load the administrative tools, right-click Taskbar and then select the Start Menu tab > Custom > System Administrative Tools.

On Windows 7, to load the administrative tools, click Control Panel > System Security > Administrative Tools. The Windows 8 and 8.1 administrative tools can be found in Settings > Tiles > Show Administrative Tools. Familiarize yourself with all the applications available in the administrative tools. In Windows 10, you can access the administrative tools by clicking on the Start button on the taskbar, then scrolling down your apps and clicking on Windows Administrative Tools.
Administrative

Windows comes with a set of utilities for administration.
Computer Management

Computer Management, located in Administrative Tools, contains a variety of tools used to manage the operating system found under the heading System Tools. Review the function of these tools and be familiar with: Device Manager, Performance Monitor, Services, System Configuration, Task Scheduler, Print Manager, Memory Diagnostics, Windows Firewall, and Advanced Security.
Device Manager

Device Manager allows you to view the status of devices, view the properties, and modify the configuration parameters.
Local Users and Groups

As a system administrator, you need to know how to create and delete users and maintain their accounts, as well as how to establish secure passwords.
Local Security Policy

This can be run by command secpol.msc and allows changes to local security policies, permissions, and rules.
Performance Monitor

This can be run by command perfmon and displays in real time how the computer uses memory, disk, CPU, and the network, to help diagnose performance issues.
Services

These can be run by command services.msc. They display the installed services and their status. They allow the user to configure how the services start with the computer and let you stop, start, and restart a service. Services are background processes that are used by applications and don’t have their own interfaces.
System Configuration

This can be run by command msconfig. It allows you to change how Windows boots and what programs start with Windows.
Task Scheduler

The task scheduler can be run by command taskschd.msc. It allows you to configure automated tasks that will run on a schedule, at specified times.
Component Services

These can be run by command compexp.msc. Components, or COM apps, is a model for apps to share components and libraries. The component services modification may be needed if you need to troubleshoot a COM or DLL error when trying to start an application.
Data Sources

These can be run by command odbcad32.exe. Data sources allow local applications to connect to remote databases, over the network. If the application requires the ODBC connection, that data source needs to be configured in Windows.
Print Management

Part of the Microsoft Management Console (MMC) that can be run by command mmc.exe. It allows you to view the status and manage local and network printers.
Windows Memory Diagnostics

These can be run by command mdsched.exe tool to test RAM for errors. It requires the user to restart the computer.
Windows Firewall

The firewall is included with all versions of Windows. Be sure you are familiar with all of the features here.
Advanced Security

Advanced Security is a more detailed way to configure the Windows Firewall. It allows you to block and allow specific applications and network ports.
Event Viewer

This can be run by command eventvwr.msc. It shows system, application, and security logs and error messages.
User Account Management

As a system administrator, you need to know how to create and delete users and maintain their accounts, as well as how to establish secure passwords.
MSConfig

This can be run by command msconfig and allows you to change how Windows boots and what programs start with Windows. The utility’s functions are presented in five tabs:
General

The General tab shows the mode of Windows startup.
Boot

The Boot tab allows configuration of multi-boot when multiple operating systems are installed, and how to boot into these operating systems, mostly for troubleshooting (safe mode).
Services

The Services tab allows the user to manage services for troubleshooting. A restart will be required after making a change.
Startup

In Windows 7, the Startup tab showed applications that started with Windows. Since Windows 8, the tab only contains a link to the Startup tab in the Task Manager utility for the same functionality.
Tools

The Tools tab lists and launches other administrative and troubleshooting tools.
Task Manager

The Task Manager is a utility that shows and manages running applications and services, logged in users, and system performance.
Applications

Lists the running applications. The Applications tab is only available in Windows 7 and was dropped in Windows 8 and beyond.
Processes

This tab lists the current running processes and resources consumption. Since Windows 8, it also lists the running applications.
Performance

This tab shows how CPU, Memory, Disk I/O, and network resources are utilized. It can be very helpful in identifying the bottleneck in a slow-running computer.
Networking

This tab in Windows 7 shows the networking performance. In Windows 8 and later, this information has been moved to the Performance tab.
Users

This tab shows currently logged in users, their status, and applications run by these users.
Disk Management

Windows provides a disk management utility that can be run with the diskmgmt.msc command. The utility shows information and allows changing the disks, partitions, and volumes configuration.
Drive Status

The Status column shows the status information for each volume. It includes health and availability, volume type, and content type.
Mounting

Mounting applies to NTFS and allows the user to mount a drive to a folder, not a drive letter.
Initializing

After adding a new disk to a Windows computer, the drive may need to be initialized. This erases all data and prepares the disk to be used in Windows.
Extending Partitions

You can increase the size of a partition by extending it. It requires free space adjacent to the partition. Depending on the type and the file system, this task may or may not require erasing the data.
Splitting Partitions

Splitting partitions means creating two partitions in place of one. Windows Disk Management tools don’t allow splitting, but the same can be achieved by shrinking a partition, then creating another one.
Shrink Partitions

Shrinking is reducing the size of a partition. Of course, the resulting partition size should be able to fit all existing data. Depending on the type and the file system, doing this may require erasing the data.
Assigning/Changing Drive Letters

To access the file system and start using the disk for file storage, a disk needs to be assigned to a drive letter (e.g., C:, D:, E:, etc.). Once assigned, the files can be accessed through this drive. A drive letter can be changed for the disk. Be aware that it may change how the system, applications, and users’ shortcuts reference the files and break some functionality if not done correctly.
Adding Drives

To add a drive, install the hardware, initialize, format, assign a letter, or mount the NTFS drive to a folder.
Adding Arrays

An array is a set of disks configured for improved performance and reliability. Software arrays are created and managed by Windows and can be created in the Disk Management utility after adding more than one disk. Hardware arrays use a special controller, configured separately before Windows boots. The array of disks then appears as a single disk to the operating system.
Storage Spaces

Storage spaces are created in a separate dedicated utility in Control Panel. This allows you to create different types of disk arrays, even across different types and sizes of disks.
System Utilities

Windows includes system utilities useful in maintenance, configuration, and troubleshooting.

Regedit—Registry Editor allows the user to view and change the Windows registry. The registry contains some operating system and application settings that may need to be changed in advanced troubleshooting.

Command—Command line interface, a prompt to enter commands in text format.

Services.msc—Command to open the Services utility to view and manage the system services.

MMC—Microsoft Management Console is a graphical interface used by many system utilities, for instance the Device Manager. Running MMC separately allows the user to open all the utilities that use that interface in the console.

MSTSC—Client for remote desktop, also known as terminal service, to connect to a remote Windows computer

Notepad—Simple text editor.

Explorer—File explorer to browse and manage files.

Msinfo32—Displays advanced hardware and drivers information.

DxDiag—DirectX Diagnostic Tool is for troubleshooting DirectX, display, audio, and input devices drivers.

Disk Defragmenter—Relocates pieces of large files to continuous space on a disk for optimized performance.

System Restore—Creates, manages, and restores the system using restore points.

Windows Update—Checks, installs, and manages Windows and other Microsoft updates.



Microsoft Windows Control Panel Utilities (scenario)

The Control Panel includes tools and utilities to view, change, and troubleshoot system settings.
Internet Options

Internet Options is a utility to manage network settings beyond basic IP connectivity. The settings are separated into multiple tabs.

Connections—Add and manage dial-up and VPN connections; configure proxy settings for web browsing.

Security—Define security settings for different zones. Websites can be added to the list of trusted or restricted sites, and different settings may be applied to these lists. The settings control what types of scripts will be run on the sites in the different lists and by default.

General—Configure what is shown when Internet Explorer is started, home page, tabs behavior, and interface appearance

Privacy—Allow and block sites, choose if you want to send your location to websites, and configure pop-up blocking.

Programs—Set default applications for Internet browsing, HTML editing, and email; manage and configure Internet Explorer add-ons.

Advanced—Lists advanced settings of accessibility, web browsing behavior and protocols, and security.
Display/Display Settings

This is the means to change the video output settings.
Resolution

Resolution is the number of vertical and horizontal pixels on the monitor. Windows usually recommends the highest resolution that your monitor supports for a crisper view, but this can be changed if needed.
Color Depth

Color depth is a measurement of how many bits are used to represent color. Higher depth would result in more accurate color representation on the monitor, but requires more hardware and software resources to do so.
Refresh Rate

Refresh rate is how frequently the image on the monitor changes. A higher rate provides smoother motion for graphics, videos, and games, but requires more hardware and software resources.
User Accounts

You can add, manage, and remove local users and their roles for the computer. Each user will have his or her own profile with different settings and user folders.
Folder Options

Folder options change how files are shown and searched.
View Hidden Files

Hidden is a file flag that signifies that users don’t usually need to see these files, like system and configuration files. Windows settings can be changed to show these files if they need to be accessed.
Hide Extensions

In Windows, files have extensions at the end of the file name, after a period (e.g., .txt, .docx, and .exe). To make the file names cleaner and prevent users from making accidental changes to the extensions, these are usually hidden. This behavior can be changed with this setting.
General Options

The General tab of the File Options utility allows you to change the general behavior of the file browsing interface.
View Options

The View tab allows you to change many appearance options, including showing hidden files and file extensions.
System

System is the utility of Control Panel that shows hardware overview, and some other settings, as noted below.
Performance (Virtual Memory)

Virtual memory is space reserved on a hard disk for a paging file. A paging file allows you to run more concurrent applications while reducing the need in RAM size.
Remote Settings

Options on this tab configure whether this computer can be controlled remotely with Remote Desktop and what users will have that permission.
System Protection

Manage and create system restore points or revert to previously created restore points. Restore points save the system configuration and are useful if a change needs to be reverted.
Windows Firewall

An important security addition to Windows, the Windows Firewall protects the computer by controlling what applications can access the network from this computer, and also how this computer can be accessed over the network.
Power Options

You can choose what pressing the power button on the computer should do and configure the monitor and computer power to be reduced after some time of not being used.
Hibernate

Hibernation is a mode that saves the current state of the computer and shuts it down. When started again, it restores to the same state, but without consuming power in the meantime.
Power Plans

There are three power plans that can be configured and selected depending on the current need: Power Saver, Balanced, and High Performance.
Sleep/Suspend

The Sleep mode doesn’t shut down the computer like Hibernation does, but instead significantly reduces the power to the components for a quick restart of work where you left it.
Standby

The term Standby is sometimes used interchangeably with Sleep, but is not used in the current Windows versions.
Other Utilities
Credential Manager

Credential Manager is a tool to manage Windows and web credentials in the corresponding vaults; for example, internet and remote desktop passwords.

#### Programs and Features

You can uninstall and modify applications (programs) and add or remove operating system features.
HomeGroup

HomeGroup is a feature that allows you to easily share files and printers in a small network. It is only available when you connect to a network and categorize it as the Home network, and disable it for work and public networks.
Devices and Printers

This screen lists printers, scanners, cameras, monitors, and other connected peripheral devices, and the settings of these devices can also be accessed.
Sound

You can manage devices to play and record sounds and configure sounds that the operating system produces on startup, shutdown, alerts, and prompts.
Troubleshooting

The Troubleshooting screen of the Control Panel provides a list of wizards to diagnose and troubleshoot some common issues with hardware and software.
Network and Sharing Center

Here, you can configure network adapters, create new network and dial-up connections, and configure network file and printer sharing.
Device Manager

This tab lists all hardware connected to the computer, and provides management for drivers of the devices.
BitLocker

You can enable or disable BitLocker encryption for fixes and portable disks.
Sync Center

Sync Center is a utility to configure offline files. Offline files is a feature that allows the user to continue working on network files when there is no current network connection, and synchronize the changes once connected again.
Application Installation and Configuration

There are multiple methods to install new applications and software. Some things need to be taken into consideration for successful installation and use of the applications.
System Requirements

The system needs to have enough resources to allow installation of new applications. The specific requirements depend on the application and can be usually found in the supporting documentation for the application.
Drive Space

Before running an application, its files need to be stored on the computer’s disk. There should be enough free disk space to copy and use the program’s files.
RAM

To run an application, it needs to be loaded into memory. There should be sufficient RAM available or the application will run slowly, slowing down other processes too, or not be able to run at all.
OS Requirements

An application expects to work with a specific operating system. The installation of the software should be compatible with the operating system. Refer to the application’s documentation to find out what operating systems are supported.
Methods of Installation and Deployment

There are multiple ways to distribute software installation files.
Local (CD/USB)

The only method to install new software on a computer that is not connected to any network is to have the application on a portable media, CD or USB disk. This can also be useful for large applications or slow networks. The installation files can be run directly from the media or copied to the hard disk first and then installed.
Network-Based

On computers connected to a network, applications can be installed over the network and not from portable media or local files. If the application is acquired from the Internet, the files are first copied to the local disk, then installed. Operating systems also include forms of application stores and repositories that make it easy to find and install new software.
Local User Permissions

There are permissions considerations when adding new applications. The user installing the application needs to have the permissions to write the application’s files to the installation directory. For some applications, the operating system’s settings need to be modified for it to run.

The user running the application needs to have sufficient permissions to run the application and possibly modify files and OS settings when using the software.
Security Considerations

Any new software installed on a computer may cause effects that may compromise the security of the computer and the network it is connected to.
Impact to Device

Installing a new application may allow it access to other files on the computer. Some software may be malicious and may need to be researched before installing. Even if there are no bad intentions, some functions of the software may be not suitable for protected corporate environments with sensitive information.

#### Impact to Network

If a new application is installed on a computer that is connected to the network, it will effectively get access to the network and may be compromising the security of other computers on the same network.



Microsoft Windows Networking (scenario)

Windows comes with many abilities to effectively use network resources.
HomeGroup vs. Workgroup

    HomeGroup doesn’t require a lot of configuration and is best suited for small home networks to share files and printers.

    Workgroup allows better flexibility and extended functionality and is best suited for small business networks.

Domain Setup

Windows Domain is a solution for larger organizations and scales very well. It allows many security features to limit access to resources to specific groups. It requires proper configuration of domain controller servers. The computers and the users on the domain need to be configured to use the domain as well.
Network Shares/Administrative Shares/Mapping Drives

Windows allows sharing of files and folders over the network, allowing a shared space for network users. For convenience, network shares can be mapped to a drive letter. For the users and applications, the network share appears like a local disk.

Administrative shares are created automatically to allow remote administrators to configure the computer. These shares are not shown and are not accessible to non-administrative users.
Printer Sharing vs. Network Printer Mapping

You can use the printer sharing functionality to allow printing from other computers to the printer connected locally. To print using a shared printer on a remote computer, it needs to be mapped first, installing the drivers for the printer.
Establish Networking Connections

There are multiple ways to connect a Windows computer to a local or remote network.
VPN

VPN is a Virtual Private Network and uses another underlying network, usually the internet. It allows secure access to a remote location over public infrastructure.
Dial-ups

Dial-up allows the user to connect to a remote computer over a telephone network. The remote computer needs to be set up to listen and accept connections.
Wireless

Wireless network connections use Wi-Fi technology to connect. Because it is not physically restricted in the area, the network will usually have another layer of security in the form of a password or more complex authentication. Once connected, the functionality is very similar to a wired connection.
Wired

Wired connections usually come in a form of Ethernet to the computers. It requires cabling to every computer and may require other network devices like switches and routers.
WWAN (Cellular)

Similar to mobile phones that can access the internet from anywhere, the cellular network can be used to connect to the network. Some tablets and laptops come with built-in cellular hardware.
Proxy Settings

A proxy server is a form of a gateway. A common example is a web proxy that is set up to filter access to the internet from a local network to improve security.
Remote Desktop Connection

Remote Desktop Connection allows you to connect to a remote Windows computer for full control with a keyboard and mouse, and full graphical interface. The computer needs to be configured to allow access.
Remote Assistance

Remote Assistance allows a remote desktop connection, but a request to connect needs to be generated and sent first. It creates a file that can be emailed and used to connect.
Settings for Work Type

When connecting a Windows computer to a new network, it asks you to identify the type of the network: Home, Work, or Public. When selected, the corresponding discovery and firewall settings will be set to align with the security needs.
Firewall Settings

Windows comes with configurable firewall rules to allow or block certain applications or network ports and control the security.
Exceptions

When installing a new application that needs access to the network, Windows may ask if it should be allowed and add an exception to the firewall.
Configuration

The Windows firewall can be manually configured to allow or deny applications and network ports.
Enabling/Disabling Windows Firewall

The Windows firewall can be switched off completely for the type of the network. This effectively allows all network traffic and has to be used extremely carefully to avoid exposing the computer to potential network threats and unauthorized access.
Alternative IP Addresses

The IP address of a Windows computer can be dynamically acquired from a DHCP server on the network, or configured manually. This is done within the TCP/IPv4 settings of the network adapter.
IP Addressing

The IP address needs to be in the same subnet with other hosts and the gateway, but be unique.
Subnet Mask

A subnet mask determines what hosts are on the same network with the local computer. It needs to match between all the computers and network devices on the local network.
DNS

DNS are servers that resolve names (e.g., microsoft.com) to an IP address that the computer can communicate with. More than one DNS server can be configured for reliability.
Gateway

A default gateway is a router that can forward the network traffic from the local network to other remote networks. At least one of its interfaces has to be on the same local network as the computer.
Network Card Properties

In addition to IP addresses, other settings can be manually configured on the network card.
Half Duplex/Full Duplex/Auto

    Duplex determines if the data can be transferred in both directions at the same time. Half duplex operates like a one-way walkie-talkie radio, where only one side can talk, and the other side waits for it to finish before talking.

    In full duplex mode, devices on both sides of the network cable can “talk” and “listen” at the same time, making data transfer faster and more reliable.

    The auto setting will try to determine if full duplex is available on the cabling or fall back to half duplex.

Speed

Usually, speeds of 10, 100, and 1000 Mbits per second can be seen on networks. This can be set manually or left in auto mode to determine the fastest speed supported by the network.
Wake-on-LAN

Wake-on-LAN is a function of a network card that allows you to power on the computer when a special packet has been received. It may be useful in a scenario with a computer that has resources that need to sometimes be accessed over the network, but power needs to be preserved when it’s not accessed.
QoS

Quality of Service is a set of techniques to prioritize one type of traffic over another. For instance, you may be using a computer for video conferencing while transferring files. The video and audio traffic should take precedence over the file transfer for a better overall experience.
BIOS (On-Board NIC)

A network interface card may be separate or part of the motherboard (on-board). In the case of an on-board NIC, some settings may be only available from the BIOS settings.



MacOS and Linux Systems (scenario)

MacOS and Linux operating systems come with similar utilities, tools, and commands for configuration and maintenance.
Best Practices

There are some known good practices to maintain the system, data, and performance, and these are the most important ones.
Scheduled Backups

Scheduled backups create a copy of data and configuration that can be restored later if needed. The best practice is to frequently create backups of files, and have a copy of important files at a remote location. This remote location may be cloud storage that can be accessed over the internet.
Scheduled Disk Maintenance

There is no scheduled disk maintenance built into MacOS, but the Automator allows you to schedule these jobs, and cron in Linux can be used to schedule any command. The best practice is to schedule disk maintenance jobs to run outside of business hours, or as needed.
System Updates

In MacOS, the System Preferences for the App Store provide the configuration for system updates. You can choose to either manually or automatically download and install the updates.

Linux distros manage updates differently. In Ubuntu, the settings are very similar to MacOS and accessed via the Software & Updates settings.

The best practice is to install updates as quickly as possible after they’re released, but after ensuring there are no compatibility issues.
Patch Management

Patches are smaller updates, usually addressing specific functions and features, security, and bugs. These are managed similarly to system updates. The best practice is to allow automatic installation of patches to improve security, if the environment allows this disruption.
Driver/Firmware Updates

Drivers and hardware firmware sometimes get updated too. These are managed similarly to system updates. Again, the best practice is to install driver updates as quickly as possible after they’re released to improve hardware performance, but after ensuring there are no compatibility issues.
Antivirus/Anti-Malware Updates

Antivirus software may depend on the signatures of viruses and other malicious software that needs to be updated. Make sure that the security software is configured to get frequent updates after installing it.
Tools

To maintain the best practices, MacOS and Linux provide tools for system maintenance. Here are some of them:
Backup/Time Machine

MacOS comes with the Time Machine utility to create a backup to an external drive. Linux has many options, a popular one being the Duplicity command line utility as well as the Déjà Dup GUI interface for that utility. It will copy selected files to a predetermined location on a schedule.
Restore/Snapshot

When files need to be restored from backup, the same Time Machine and Duplicity tools that were used to create the backups can be used.
Image Recovery

In MacOS, the Disk Utility can be used to create and restore disk images. The images are files that can be mounted and behave like a disk. Or it can be restored to a physical disk. Linux distros have multiple solutions; gnome-disk-utility comes with Ubuntu under the Disks name.
Disk Maintenance Utilities

Disk Utility in MacOS and Disks in some Linux distros can be used to check the disks for errors.
Shell/Terminal

While MacOS and most Linux distros come with a convenient GUI, they provide a command line interface that may be useful for system commands and tools that are not available in the GUI. Some Linux and MacOS commands are listed in the Basic Linux Commands section of this guide.
Screen Sharing

Remote screen sharing and access can be enabled and configured via the System Preferences and Sharing menu. For Linux GUI, a popular method of screen sharing is using the VNC protocol and software.
Force Quit

If an application becomes unresponsive and needs to be closed, you may need to force quit. It will terminate the application and you will lose unsaved work. It can be accomplished by selecting the application and pressing the quit button in the Activity Monitor in MacOS or Task Manager in Ubuntu.
Features

MacOS comes with many features that are unique compared to other operating systems. It’s important to understand these features so that you can get the most out of using a Mac.

Multiple Desktops/Mission Control—Mission Control is a program that allows you to view everything that is open and also quickly swap between programs. Mission Control also allows you to create multiple desktops (called Spaces) that you can use to organize what you are working on.

Keychain—The Keychain feature in Mac operating systems is a tool used for password management. Items that can be stored in Keychain include passwords, private keys, certificates, and secure notes.

Spotlight— Spotlight is a search feature on Mac operating systems. It creates an index of all the items and files on your system so you can look up items quickly.

iCloud—The iCloud program comes default on all Apple products. It is used as a method for storing data in the cloud. This is beneficial as a backup method for Mac users.

Gestures—Apple gestures are small motions that a user can make using the trackpad to complete simple tasks. For example, to move between pages of a document, swipe left or right with two fingers. All of the gestures for Mac devices can be found under system preferences, then by selecting trackpad.

Finder—The Finder is the default file manager for Mac operating systems, similar to the FIle Explorer program in Windows. Finder allows users to search for files, open files, and delete files from one location.

Remote Disc—The remote disc feature allows smaller Mac devices that do not have a disc drive to essentially “borrow” the disc drive of a nearby device. It allows the computer without the disc drive to access the files on a disc that is being used on another device.

Dock—The dock in MacOS is similar to the taskbar in Windows. It is the launching pad for all applications on Mac operating systems.

Boot Camp—Boot Camp is a utility that comes built into Mac devices and lets users switch between MacOS and Windows operating systems.
Basic Linux Commands

To be successful in using Linux operating systems, you will need to be familiar with at least the most basic Linux commands. Being able to navigate the Linux terminal using these basic commands will be very beneficial. It’s important to note that Linux commands are case sensitive, so take note of the case you are using when typing them.

ls—The ls command is known as the “list” command in Linux. This is because the command will list all of the files or folders in a given directory. In order to use this command, navigate to the folder or directory you’re interested in and type “ls”. After hitting enter, a list of all the files and folders in that location will be displayed.

grep—The grep command stands for global regular expression print. The grep command is a search command. You can use it to search for a string of characters within a file or standard text output. For example, if you are viewing a file in the terminal and type the command grep “unix”, the terminal will display all of the instances of the word “unix” in that file.

cd—The command cd stands for change directory. This is very similar to the change directory in Windows. You can type cd .. (note that there is a space between cd and the two dots) and you will move back one directory from where you are. If you use the command cd /, you will go all the way back to the root directory, which is known as /.

shutdown—The shutdown command is used to turn the device off. If you use the command shutdown by itself, it will notify all logged in users, log those users off, and then turn off the system. You can also use the shutdown command to restart the computer by using the -r flag on the command. (Example: shutdown -r)

pwd vs. passwd—While many people see the term pwd and think “password,” it actually means something very different in Linux. The command pwd stands for present working directory, and it will display the full path of the current working directory. So, if pwd doesn’t change the password, then what command does? The command to change passwords in Linux is the passwd command. This command can be used by typing passwd followed by the username that needs its password reset. If no username is specified, it will change the password for the current user.

mv—The mv command in Linux is the move command. This command allows a user to move a specified file to another location. Move would be similar to a cut and paste in Windows.

cp—The cp command in Linux stands for copy. Its functionality is similar to that of the move file, except that it places a copy in the new location while still leaving the file in the original location.

rm—The rm command stands for remove in the Linux operating system. This is similar to a delete functionality, as it removes the file, directory, or other various objects from the location.

chmod—To modify Linux file permissions, you must use the chmod command. Before changing Linux file permissions, it’s important to first understand how they are represented. Each permission is represented by a letter, as shown here: r: The read permission, w: The write permission, x: The execute permission.

chown—While the chmod command changes the permissions, the chown command changes the ownership of a file, directory or other objects.

iwconfig/ifconfig—The ifconfig command in Linux is very similar to the ipconfig command in Windows. The ifconfig command is used to display networking information of the Linux device such as IP address, DHCP address, and MAC address. The iwconfig command is similar to ifconfig, but it strictly looks at the wireless interface.

ps—The ps command in Linux will display all of the currently running process and their process numbers. The ps command stands for process status.

su/sudo—The su command stands for switch user (or substitute user). The su command can be used by adding a username that you wish to switch to after the command (example: su linuxuser1) or it can be used by itself, which will by default switch it to the root user. Sudo will switch the user for a single command, while su will switch the user until it’s switched back.

apt-get— APT stands for advanced packaging tool. The apt-get command is a tool for handling packages in Linux. It is used to retrieve packages from authenticated sources for installation, upgrade, and removal of packages, along with their dependencies.

vi—The vi command is short for visual editor. The vi tool is the default text editor that comes with Linux systems.

dd—The purpose of the dd command in Linux systems is to copy a file then convert and format it according to the operands. DD stands for data duplicator.

kill—In Linux, the built-in command to terminate a process is the kill command. The kill command can be used to terminate a process using the name or PID.


