= 1.1 Given a scenario, install and configure laptop hardware and components.

== Hardware/Device Replacement

The most common replacements (or upgrades) include keyboards and other input
devices, hard drives, and RAM.

You must be able to install and configure the hardware and components of a
laptop in a given scenario.
You should be aware of the following hardware and be comfortable replacing it.


With laptops (aka notebooks) and most portable devices, there is a repair vs.
replace cost and a convenience balance that always needs to be considered.
How much is a replacement?
How much better, faster, and cooler is the new device?
How much will a repair cost?
What would keep you from having to reinstall all of your programs?
How recent is your backup?

Please think about this before you go to bed tonight as you ultimately will be
called upon to replace individual components regardless of the soundness of the
decision. When working on any devices to replace any components, please consider
the following guidelines:

no user-replaceable parts

.Some Quick Tips for Replacing Laptop Components:

Safety First! It’s a good idea to:
* Wear an electrostatic wrist strap.
* Make absolutely sure there is no power supplied to the unit.
** Remove the battery.
** Ensure that the laptop is not plugged in (AC adapter).



Make sure that the replacement part is compatible with the laptop.
You can look up replacement parts from the manufacturer’s website.
For example, on an HP laptop, you can look up replacement part numbers with HP Part Surfer (http://partsurfer.hp.com/).
You can look up parts by serial number or model number.

Locate the maintenance manual for your laptop (available online or through the manufacturer).
Laptops can be tricky to open. It is always helpful to know how components fit together.
Many laptop contain hidden cables or screws.

Review the owner’s manual and/or technical documentation for the device.
Download and print the documentation from the manufacturer’s website.

The repair/replace process will be different for every manufacturer and even different models from the same manufacturer.
Consult the documentation before picking up a screwdriver.

Keep the removed screws on a stable surface and separate them by size.
You can use a labeled piece of paper or a small case with multiple compartments to organize the screws by the locations they go back to.


look for service manual online, for proper disassemble procedures.
  maintenance

Check the warranty status of the laptop. If the laptop is under warranty, you
may be able to obtain replacement parts and/or service at no cost.

Make sure that you have the correct tools
* Screw drivers with different bits (some newer laptops contain small
  star-shaped screws)
* Spudger and guitar picks to remove plastic components

Each time you remove a screw, you should label it with the location from where
it was removed. A typical laptop will have five to ten different types of
screws, and it might be difficult to tell them apart (for example a 2.5mm screw
and a 3mm screw). It is important that the screws go back exactly where they
came from.

Some screws are hidden under stickers or rubber pads, especially on the bottom
of the laptop.

Increasingly, laptops are designed to be smaller and thinner. Thinner/smaller
laptops are more difficult to repair. Take note of the following
* Manufacturers of “gaming” laptops are typically repair and upgrade friendly
* Other companies (like Apple) will not sell repair parts to third parties. Only
  aftermarket parts are available. The government may block the import of
  aftermarket parts.
* Other laptop design changes
** Having an internal battery (more difficult to change, but also reduces the
   weight of the laptop)
** Integrating more components into the system board. For example, the MacBook
   Pro’s SSD, Memory, and Processor are soldered into the system board. If any
   of those components fails, the entire system board will have to be replaced.

Consider whether the laptop is “consumer-grade” or “business-grade”.
* Examples of consumer grade laptops include the HP Envy
* Examples of business-grade laptops include the Lenovo ThinkPad, and the HP
  EliteBook
* Business grade laptops are designed to be easier to repair (they have more
  accessibility panels and less tools are required)
* Many business grade laptops come with 3-year warranties and include on site
  service. Check the warranty status first.
 Drivers
* In most cases, Windows will automatically detect the new hardware and install
  the correct driver
* It is good to download the correct driver from the manufacturer’s website
  before installation
* The component that will cause the most driver issues is the solid-state drive.
  You should copy the new driver to a USB key before you install a solid-state
  drive.
Determine if the system board is mounted to the top or the bottom of the laptop
* If the system board is mounted to the bottom cover
** To access the board, you must remove the top cover and keyboard
** Most older model laptops have their system boards mounted to the bottom cover
** You can access some components (CMOS battery, RAM, Wi-Fi card, HDD) from the
   access panels
** To access the system board, you must remove the keyboard and cover
* If the system board is mounted to the top cover
** To access the system board, you must remove the bottom cover
** You may need to remove other components (HDD, battery, fan) to access the
   system board

Replacing hardware and devices in a laptop can be a challenge because of the size limitations.
The best way to determine the proper disassembly method is to consult the documentation from the manufacturer.
Some models of notebook PCs require a special T-8 Torx screwdriver.
Most PC toolkits come with a T-8 bit for a screwdriver with interchangeable bits, but you may find that the T-8 screws are countersunk in deep holes so that you can’t fit the screwdriver into them.
In such cases, you need to buy a separate T-8 screwdriver, available at most hardware stores or auto parts stores.

Many laptop manufacturers will consider a warranty void if an unauthorized person opens a laptop case and attempts to repair it.

Prepare a clean, well-lit, flat work surface; assemble your tools and manuals;
and ensure that you have the correct parts.
Shut down the PC, unplug it, and detach any external devices such as an external keyboard, mouse, or monitor.
In this section, with these general guidelines for opening the laptop in mind, you’ll look at replacing various components of a laptop.
Always ensure that you have grounded yourself before working with computer components of any kind.
Use an antistatic wristband and attach it to the case.

== Keyboard
typically, a laptop keyboard has tabs which hold it in place.
the keyboard has a sensitive ribbon cable, which connects it to a ZIF connector
underneath.

The keyboard on a mobile device is smaller sized and typically has certain keys
removed or in different locations than a full-sized keyboard.

The keyboard can be one of the easier components to replace.
However, you may need to remove components to get access to the screws.
In this example, we will assume the screws are immediately accessible from the
top once we remove the plastic faceplate.

Faceplate – To pry the plastic faceplate and frame components apart without
scratching or gouging them, use a spudger if available, or cover the tip of a
butter knife or small flathead screwdriver with a bit or soft, thin cloth.

The objective is to keep the metal edges of your tool from direct contacting
with the easily damaged plastic of the faceplate.
Slip your tool into the crevice between the faceplate and pry upwards gently.
Remember, these pieces are only held in place by small plastic tabs.
They should separate with slight force.
If you have to pry hard, stop and reapply using a slight force.
Once pried off, move to a different position and repeat.
Consult the documentation to be sure there are no screws holding the faceplate
down.
Once you have begun to separate the pieces, work around the edge of the
faceplate until you can lift it up.
Before moving the faceplate too far, check to see if there are ribbon cables or
other connectors connected to it.
If so, do not twist or disconnect the connections.
Simply move the faceplate out of your way in order to expose the two to four
screws that secure the keyboard.
Remove the screws and lift the keyboard up gently until you can see the ribbon
cable that connects it to the motherboard.

Keyboard removal

Observe the orientation of the cable as one side of the ribbon will be striped.
The connectors are ZIF (Zero Insertion Force) type and are released by lifting
the tabs at both ends of the connector. If the replacement keyboard came with a
ribbon cable attached, remove the original keyboard and cable. If not, release
the original keyboard from the cable leaving the ribbon intact on the
motherboard. Get the replacement keyboard and insert the ribbon cable in the
connector, making sure there are no unintended twists in the ribbon. An
intentional twist in the cable will be preexisting, flat, and at a 90o angle.
The ribbon cable connector should slip right into the socket. If it does not,
check that both end tabs on the connector are fully raised. Insert the cable
until you feel it stop and push down on the connector ends to secure it. Secure
the keyboard and move the face plate so that it is in position but not snapped
in. Power up your laptop and test the keyboard. If the keyboard works, power
down the machine and replace the face plate.

.Replacing a Laptop Keyboard
1. Typically, a laptop keyboard has tabs which hold it in place.
2. The keyboard has a sensitive ribbon cable, which connects it to a ZIF
   connector underneath.
3. Use a spudger or flathead screw driver to lift the keyboard out of the laptop frame.
4. Remove the ribbon cable from the ZIF connector
5. Insert the new keyboard ribbon cable into the ZIF connector
6. Insert the keyboard tabs into the laptop frame and push down to secure it

== Hard Drive
.SSD vs. hybrid vs. magnetic disk
** SSD (Solid-state drive)
*** All memory, no moving parts
*** Silent, fast access time, less latency
*** 2.5 inch and 1.8 inch form factors
** Hybrid drive (SSHD)
*** Solid-sate hybrid drive
*** Flash memory and hard drive storage
*** SSD caches the hard drive data
** Magnetic disk
*** Traditional spinning drive platters

These come in three main types: SSD, Hybrid, and Magnetic.
SSD vs. hybrid vs. magnetic disk

    SSD uses flash memory for fastest response times possible.
    Magnetic is a traditional drive that spins and reads, using specialized
    equipment.
    Hybrid is a combination of both drives and typically more cost effective
    than a full SSD.


Hard Drive

Before obtaining your replacement part, start by checking the manufacturer’s
website for the exact replacement. Since this would be the perfect time to
upgrade, look at your options in terms of drive speed and capacity. This could
be the perfect time to upgrade to an SSD (Solid State Drive) or a Hybrid (SSD
and HDD). If you choose the SSD, you will be rewarded with faster speed and
longer battery life. Be aware of the physical size differences in available
drives. If you get a 1.8” drive a 1.8” to 2.5″adapter will ship with the drive.
There is quite a noticeable size difference as you can see.



.1.8in vs. 2.5in
These are the diameters of the magnetic platters inside a hard disk. SSDs do not
have magnetic platters, so the dimension represents a size equivalent to a
magnetic drive.

1.8” and 2.5” drives

OK, say you have your replacement drive and are ready to proceed to the next
step.

The hard drive is usually accessed by removing a service panel on the bottom of
the laptop. You can identify the panel because in most cases, a barrel symbol,
indicating the hard drive, will be present on the panel. The panel may also
cover the memory and the wireless card. There may be a panel covering only the
hard drive. In either case, look for the barrel symbol.

Once you locate the panel, remove the panel by loosening the screws that secure
it and pry it up. The screws should stay on the panel by design. When you remove
the panel, you will see the hard drive.

Service panel removed

The drive will be in a mounting assembly held in by two or four screws. In our
example, the drive is secured with two screws and a Mylar sheet with lifting
tabs on it.  Remove the drive assembly carefully and disconnect the SATA
connector.

2.5″ HDD in assembly

We see a 2.5” standard magnetic drive. There will be four screws holding the
drive in the assembly. Remove the screws and place your replacement drive in the
assembly. If the new drive is an SSD, the drive will be 2mm thinner than the 9mm
drive you are replacing, requiring a 2mm spacer that will be shipped with the
new drive. This spacer ensures the footprint will be the same as both drives are
2.5”. Here is the new SSD drive with a black/yellow 2mm spacer installed in the
assembly.

2.5” 7mm SSD in Assembly with Spacer

Mount the new drive in the assembly, reconnect the SATA connector, and replace
the drive assembly in the laptop by screwing it back in. Replace the service
panel. If you want to check that the drive is being seen, power up the laptop,
access the UEFI/BIOS, and look for the disk. Your new drive will not be
available to the operating system until it is initialized.


• SSD (Solid-state drive)
•• All memory, no moving parts
•• Silent, fast access time, less latency
•• 2.5 inch and 1.8 inch form factors
• Hybrid drive (SSHD)
•• Solid-state hybrid drive
•• Flash memory and hard drive storage
•• SSD caches the hard drive data
• Magnetic disk
•• Traditional spinning drive platters
Replacing Laptop Storage
• Can be very modular
•• Two screws and the drive slides out
• All internal
•• Open a cover on the back
•• Open the entire laptop

.There are three types of laptop hard drives
SSDs
  An SSD (or Solid-State Drive) contains flash memory.
  The drive has no moving parts.
  SSDs operate faster than traditional hard disk drives.
  SSDs are more expensive.
  There are several different form-factors of SSDs (discussed later)

Magnetic Disk
  A traditional Hard Disk Drive contains glass platters which store the data.
  The platters rotate at 5400 rpms or more
  The drive contains a probe, which stores/reads data on the platters.
  Magnetic Disks are slower than SSDs.
  Magnetic disks are less expensive.
  Laptop magnetic disks only come in a 2.5” form-factor or a 1.8” form-factor

Hybrid
  A hybrid drive is a magnetic drive with a small amount of flash memory
  (usually 32GB).
  Data is stored on the platters.
  Data that is accessed frequently is stored on the flash memory as well
  A hybrid drive costs almost the same as a magnetic drive, but offers better
  performance

.Replace a laptop HDD
If the HDD is a 2.5” form factor
* On a consumer-grade laptop and some business-grade laptops
  A traditional Hard Disk Drive contains glass platters which store the data.
** The HDD is typically located underneath an access panel (may be labelled)
** Remove the access panel
** The HDD is sits inside a groove or rubber/metal/plastic bracket
** Remove the connection cable from the HDD
** Remove the HDD from the groove and/or bracket
** Insert the new HDD into the bracket
** Reconnect the connection cable
** Close the access panel

* On some business-grade laptops
** The HDD might sit inside a slot on the side of the laptop
** The HDD is secured with a screw
** Remove the screw and slide out the old HDD
** Insert the new HDD, and reinsert the screw

* If the SSD is a special form-factor (like an NVMe form-factor)
** Remove the access panel
** Remove the screw holding the SSD to the system board
** Remove the SSD from the slot in the system board
** Insert the new SSD into the system board
** Insert the screw
** Reinstall the access panel

.Laptop Hard Disk Drive Sizes
1.8”
* Not common
* Found in ultralight laptops
* You can install a 1.8” drive in a 2.5” drive bay, with an adapter
2.5”
* Most popular and readily available format
* Most laptops contain 2.5-inch drives

== Memory

Memory

Laptop memory typically comes in the smaller SO-DIMM and Micro-DIMM form
factors. SO-DIMM is Small Outline Dual In-line Memory Module. The “SO” tells you
the memory module has a smaller outline (length and width) than the original
DIMM. It is also thinner. As the name Micro-DIMM implies, its outline and
thickness is even smaller than SO-DIMM.

Memory

When you are replacing memory, an upgrade is certainly viable. When replacing or
upgrading your memory, you must check with the manufacturer for the memory types
and capacities your system will accept. It possible that a 4GB DDR3 SO-DIMM from
different manufacturers will have the insertion notches in different positions
at the edge of the module. Know exactly what you need and get as much as the
system will take. Laptop memory is typically installed in pairs so make sure you
get 2 modules of the same memory from the same manufacturer.

The installation process requires removal of the same service panel as that of
the hard drive. The pair of SO-DIMMS are held in place by metal clips on both
sides of each module. Move the clips outward simultaneously and the module will
pop up slightly, enough for you to grasp and remove it. Do this for both
modules. Remove your new memory from its packaging and carefully install it by
sliding it into the memory slot and pushing down to seat the module and engage
the retaining clips. Here is what it should look like installed. Note the silver
retaining clips and the notch in the memory module are perfectly aligned in the
socket. Also note that the palm rest and touchpad were removed to access the
memory. Bonus points if you can tell what the difference is between the image
and the guidelines provided in the instructions. (Answer: Different memory
manufacturers.)

Installed memory

Laptop memory
• SO-DIMM
•• Small Outline Dual In-line Memory Module
• Micro-DIMM
•• Micro-Dual In-line Memory Module
• Memory used in laptops and mobile devices

.Replacing Laptop Memory
1. Make sure that
  a. Your laptop supports the amount of RAM you plan to add (4GB, 8GB, etc.)
  b. You have the correct number of RAM sticks
  c. You have the correct type of RAM (DDR3, DDR4, etc.)
2. If you’re not sure what kind of RAM you require, you can check online
  a. Check with the manufacturer
  b. Check with the RAM retailer
  c. Check the existing computer to see what kind of RAM is installed
3. Remove the access panel from the bottom of the laptop
4. Remove the memory from its connector, by pushing the tabs outward
5. Pull the memory upward
6. Insert the new memory into the connector and push down until it snaps into
   place
7. Reinstall the access panel

== Smart Card Reader
Smart Card Reader

Many laptops come with this reader built in, which provides an authentication
mechanism. External readers that connect via USB are also available.

Smart card reader

Before you diagnose a Card reader as faulty, try the card in a different
machine. Make sure you have good media before tearing your laptop down. If you
have diagnosed your Card reader as faulty, consider a USB replacement as
discussed in Part 1 of this objective. Check the documentation. These results
will inform you during the replacement decision process. Smart Card readers
provide access to the content through slots. These slots can be in either a
double door flap type opening, for Compact Flash, or a single, open slot of a
specific size depending on which SD card type you are using. In either case, the
reader will be pretty deep in the laptop unit. Usually, the best way to access
the reader is through the top by removing the keyboard and the bezel. Some Card
readers can be accessed through a bottom panel while others could be soldered to
the motherboard. Check the ribbon cable for damage and use the one that came
with replacement if supplied. Reverse the disassembly process to close up the
case. Make sure all of the screws are back in the right places.


Smart card reader
• Integrated card reader
•• Built into the laptop

.Replacing Laptop Smart Card Reader
1. Determine if the smart card reader can be replaced
  a. If the smart card reader is a separate component, it can be replaced
  b. If the smart card reader is integrated into the system board, then the
     entire system board will have to be replaced
2. Remove the bottom cover
3. Remove any components that are covering the smart card
4. Unplug the smart card reader from its cable
5. Unscrew the smart card reader
6. Remove the smart card reader
7. Install the new smart card reader and insert the screws
8. Plug the new smart card reader into the cable
9. Reinstall any components that were covering the smart card
10. Reinstall the bottom cover

== Optical Drive
Optical Drive

Smaller model laptops will not include an optical drive for DVDs or CDs and,
instead, may use an external drive that connects via USB.


Optical drive

An Optical drive used to be pretty tough to access. Fortunately, later laptop
models hold the drive in with a single screw to an assembly that has SATA
connectors fitted into it. Otherwise, you may be able to get to the drive from
the bottom service panel or you’ll have to have to disassemble from the top.
Follow your instructions carefully. Generally speaking, the Optical drives that
use a slide-out tray are easier to remove than the slot insertion type.

Optical drive
• Too large for today's portable devices
•• Becoming difficult to find

Optical Drive Replacement
1. The optical drive is typically held in by one screw
  a. If the screw is accessible from outside of the laptop, remove the screw
  b. If the screw is accessible from inside the laptop, remove the bottom cover,
     then remove the screw
2. Slide the drive out of the laptop.
3. Slide the new drive in.
4. Reinsert the screw.
5. Reinstall the bottom panel, if removed
6. The optical drive may have a plastic cover, which may need to be swapped

== Wireless card/Bluetooth module
Wireless Card/Bluetooth Module

A wireless or WiFi card connects the laptop to a WiFi network. Most laptops
include this card to allow for connecting to a wireless network. It can also be
added directly to the motherboard. A Bluetooth module connects the laptop to a
personal area network or a Bluetooth device.

Wireless card / Mini-PCIe

When replacing a wireless card, there is always the USB option. In this
discussion, we will discuss internal expansion options with the addition of a
Mini PCI slot followed by a Mini-PCIe slot. Here is how they compare.

Mini-PCI to Mini-PCIe Comparison

Mini-PCI allows manufacturers to adjust the laptop features to user needs
without designing a new laptop. This slot works the same way as in desktops,
only on a much smaller scale. Always accessible through a service panel, the
Mini-PCIe slot is USB 2.0 compliant and can be used to increase storage
capacity, add Bluetooth, or add/upgrade wireless capabilities. This was a common
issue as a user with a decent laptop and a 802.11 b wireless card would need to
swap out for a 802.11g or 802.11n card. While the card was easy to swap out, the
wireless upgrade required patience because the internal antennae on the card
have tiny F type connectors that take time and care to connect. Here is a
Mini-PCIe wireless card ready to be installed. Note the black slot and gold
antenna connectors. Once connected, the card will also be screwed in.

Mini-PCIe Wireless Card

.Wireless Card/Bluetooth Module Replacement
1. Determine if the wireless card is integrated into the system board or if it
   is a separate component
  a. If it is a separate component, it can be replaced
  b. The wireless card is connected to the system board.
2. Remove
  a. The access panel at the bottom of the laptop or
  b. Remove the bottom cover, depending on where the Wi-Fi card is located
3. Remove the antennas that are connected to the wireless card. There are
   typically two antennas, but there may be one or three.
4. The wireless card may be held by a couple of screws.  Remove the screws.
5. Remove the wireless card from its connector.
6. Install the new wireless card in the connector.
7. Secure the card with screws, if required.
8. Reinstall the antennas.
9. Reinstall the access panel or bottom cover.

== Cellular card
Cellular Card

A cellular card connects the laptop to a cellular network (3G, 4G, LTE). It is
rare for laptops to include this card, but it can be added.

Cellular Card Replacement
1. The cellular card removal/reinstallation is like the wireless card
   removal/reinstallation
2. Determine if the cellular card is integrated into the system board or if it
   is a separate component
  a. If it is a separate component, it can be replaced
  b. The cellular card is connected to the system board.
3. Remove
  a. The access panel at the bottom of the laptop or
  b. Remove the bottom cover, depending on where the Wi-Fi card is located
4. Remove the two antennas that are connected to the cellular card.
5. The cellular card may be held by a couple of screws.  Remove the screws.
6. Remove the cellular card from its connector.
7. Install the new cellular card in the connector.
8. Secure the card with screws, if required.
9. Reinstall the antennas.
10. Reinstall the access panel or bottom cover.


== Video card
Video Card

Laptop video adapters are most often built into the motherboard or the
processor, but some laptops use a separate card that connects to the
motherboard. This allows for replacing or upgrading the video adapter without
replacing the entire motherboard.

Video Cards
• Often built into the processor
•• Not upgradable
• Sometimes part of the system board
•• Again, not upgradable
• Some laptops have upgradable video cards
•• Not the slimline models

.Video Card Replacement
1. Determine if the laptop has an integrated video chip or a dedicated video chip, and
determine if it can be removed
  a. An integrated video chip is part of the system’s processor
  b. A dedicated video chip is separate, but many chips are soldered directly
     onto the system board and can’t be removed
  c. Laptops with upgradable GPUs have an MXM module
2. Remove the bottom cover
3. Remove the heat pipes from on top of the chip (they are held in by screws)
4. Remove the GPU chip
5. Clean the thermal paste from the heat pipes
6. Install the new GPU chip, being careful to make sure that it is oriented
   correctly
7. Apply thermal paste
8. Install the heat pipe and reinsert the screws
9. Reinstall the top cover

== Mini PCIe
Mini PCIe

Mini PCI Express (PCIe) is a small form-factor for adapter cards such as
wireless, Bluetooth, or SSD cards. It is smaller than the older PCI and Mini PCI
cards.

.Mini PCIe Replacement
1. Mini PCIe is a card format
2. Mini PCIe is also known as PCIe Mini, PCI Express Mini, Mini-PCI Express or
   Mini-PCI-e
3. Cards available in the Mini PCIe format include Wi-Fi cards and cellular
   cards
4. The Mini PCIe card slot is integrated into the system board and can’t be
   replaced separately

== Screen
Screen

The screen displays are similar to desktop displays, but they will typically be
smaller. Take steps to protect these screens with cases or other equipment, as
they are fragile. Laptops typically use high-resolution LCD screens.

Screen

The laptop lid is the most distinguishable component. The laptop lid contains
the backlight, the inverter that converts the DC power in the laptop back to AC
power, and the LCD screen. The LCD is secured to the lid with screws. The
inverter is easily accessible once you have removed the bezel. The lid will be
secured to the laptop body with two hinges that are typically accessed by gently
removing a faceplate with curved extensions which protect the hinge and any
cabling.

Laptop Faceplate with Hinge Covers

Once the faceplate is off, you’ll see the power and monitor cable. This should
detach easily. If it doesn’t, stop and double check your instructions. Once the
lid is free, you can now work on it. First, remove the bezel. It will be secured
by four screws that are hidden under rubber plugs at the corners. Next, pry the
bezel loose, working slowly and gently. Once the bezel is off you will see the
components. If you are not working on the screen, be careful. If you are
replacing the screen, be careful with the new one. The screen will be secured by
screws around the outer edges (four to six). Remove the screws but don’t move
the screen more than a ½ inch or so as the ribbon cable for the screen is
delicate and deliberately short. You may also find a wireless antenna disconnect
too. Follow your instructions carefully and if replacing the screen, use the new
LCD ribbon if possible. After reconnecting everything and securing the screen,
check your work quickly by powering and booting the machine. Don’t handle the
machine here. Just observe for any problems and power down. Reassemble it all
carefully, reversing the process.


Screen
• LCD (Liquid Crystal Display)
•• Light and high-resolution
• Very, very fragile - Get a good case!
• Resolutions are fixed
•• Changes to native resolution may look blurry or not as crisp

.Screen Replacement
1. Many manufacturers sell a replacement laptop “screen assembly”, which is
   basically the top half of the laptop (screen, bezel, camera, touch digitizer,
   and hinges).  It might be easier to replace the entire assembly, especially
   if multiple components are damaged
2. Wiring for the screen is routed through the laptop hinge and connects into
   the system board
3. To replace just the laptop screen
  a. Determine if the screen has a bezel (rectangular plastic that surrounds the
     screen). This is common on laptops without touch capabilities
4. If the screen has a bezel
  a. Remove the bezel (rectangular plastic that surrounds the screen
  b. Remove the screen from the top assembly. You may need to remove screws that
     hold it in place.
  c. Disconnect the ribbon cables from the screen
  d. Connect the cables to the new screen
  e. Reinstall the new screen
  f. Reinstall the bezel
5. If the screen does not have a bezel (certain models of laptops), or if you
   also need to replace the video cable
  a. You may need to remove the bottom cover
  b. Disconnect the cable from the motherboard
  c. Route the cable through the hinge
  d. You may need to pry the top cover from the screen
  e. Unscrew the existing screen
  f. Install the new screen
  g. Reroute the cable through the hinge
  h. Connect the cable to the motherboard
  i. Reinstall the bottom cover
6. If the laptop has touch capabilities
  a. The LCD screen will have a glass digitizer on top of it
  b. The glass may crack easily
  c. The glass digitizer may be screwed to the screen, or it may be glued to the
     LCD
    i. If it is glued, you may need to use a heat gun to melt the glue in order
       to remove it

== DC jack
DC Jack

Laptop chargers will come with an AC-DC power converter that is a part of the
charger. This takes the AC power from the wall outlet and converts it to DC
power that the laptop can use. This is plugged into the DC jack port on your
laptop.

DC Jack

Please be absolutely sure that the DC jack, or charging port, has failed before
you replace the jack. Make sure the AC adapter isn’t the issue too. Check the DC
jack using a voltmeter by moving the testing wire around to ensure roughly +12V
DC is showing consistently. DC jack replacement could involve a significant
laptop body tear down to access and remove the jack through de-soldering. In
this case, you will need solder, a good soldering iron, and a de-soldering wick
to absorb excess solder. Depending on your laptop’s design, you may find the
jack on a small circuit board connected to the motherboard by a ribbon cable.
This is the ideal scenario if jack replacement is necessary. We recommend that
you take pictures or precise notes. Keep track of your screws, components, and
their orientation for reassembly. Don’t heat the jack connections for a long
period of time as you don’t want to damage the board. Be sure your soldering
iron is hot and you have the de-soldering wick ready. Remove the broken jack and
replace it. Reassemble the laptop.

.DC Jack Replacement
1. The DC jack is part of the system board
2. You can either
  a. Desolder and resolder the DC jack
  b. Replace the entire system board (most likely option)
3. To access the DC jack
  a. Remove the bottom cover
  b. Remove all the components on the system board (including the processor,
     memory, Wi-Fi cards)
  c. Remove all the connection cables from the system board
  d. Unscrew the system board from the laptop
  e. Desolder the DC jack
  f. Resolder a new DC jack
  g. Reinstall the system board
  h. Reinstall the connection cables
  i. Reinstall the system board components (including the processor, memory,
     Wi-Fi cards)
  j. Reinstall the bottom cover


== Battery
Battery

Lithium Ion is the most popular laptop battery in use today. It does degrade
over time and will eventually need to be replaced in order to maintain a
charge.

Battery

Batteries are the easiest replacement of all. Obtain the exact battery you need,
preferably from the manufacturer. Use genuine parts if available. Release and
remove the old battery and replace with the new one. The new battery should fit
exactly using the original latch as the old battery. If possible, it is
advisable to do this at a time when you won’t be using the laptop for several
hours as it’s important that the battery is completely charged before the first
use.


Laptop power – AC adapters
• Auto-switching or fixed input
•• Converts AC to DC
•• Input voltage - 110 volts / 220 volts
• DC jack on the laptop
•• Specific to the power supply type
Laptop power - batteries
• Lithium Ion (Li-ion)
•• Common in consumer electronics
•• No “memory effect”
•• Charging the battery diminishes capacity

.Battery Replacement
1. Determine if the battery is external or internal, or if you are replacing the
   CMOS battery
2. For an external battery
  a. The external battery will have two tabs (one to lock the battery in place,
     and one to release the battery)
  b. Slide the locking tab to the unlock position
  c. Slide the release tab to release the battery
  d. Remove the battery
  e. Install the new battery
  f. Slide the locking tab to the lock position
3. For an internal battery
  a. Remove the bottom cover
  b. Disconnect the battery cable from the system board
  c. The battery may be held in by adhesive or screws. Remove the adhesive or
     screws.
  d. Install the new battery. Reinstall the screws or peel the covering on the
     adhesive
  e. Connect the battery cable to the system board
  f. Reinstall the bottom cover
4. For a CMOS battery
  a. CMOS battery allows the computer to store BIOS settings and clock settings
  b. The CMOS battery is the size of a quarter
  c. Remove the bottom cover or access panel
  d. The CMOS battery is either
    i. Installed in a bracket
      1. Remove the battery from the bracket
      2. Install the new battery in the bracket
    ii. Glued to the inside of the laptop and connected via a cable to the
    system board
      1. Remove the battery from the laptop
      2. Remove the connector from the system board
      3. Install the new battery
      4. Install the new connector to the system board
    e. Reinstall the bottom cover or access panel


== Touchpad
Touchpad

This is an input device found on laptops that allows you to move the cursor
around on the screen with your finger(s) and click to select items, similar in
function to a separate mouse on a desktop.


Touchpad

If your touchpad has failed, you can consider an external USB mouse or
trackball. Otherwise, this is another component that can be installed several
ways. The touchpad will be integrated with the palm rest. After reading the
instructions, locate and remove the screws that hold the touchpad and possibly
the keyboard. Disconnect the touchpad connector from the motherboard by pulling
the connector. Do not pull the wires or ribbon. Reverse the process to install
the new touchpad. Some models may have the touchpad screwed and glued onto the
palm rest. For these, you may need to replace the palm rest entirely. Otherwise,
you’ll have to carefully pry the old touchpad off of the palm rest after
removing any screws. Be careful not to damage the palm rest. Work around the
edges of the old touchpad. Carefully remove all of the old adhesive from the
palm rest. There should be adhesive with your replacement part, or a
recommendation. Make sure the new touchpad is as flush as possible so that there
is no space between the touchpad and palm rest. The reattachment process should
be documented by the manufacturer. Use only genuine parts.

.Touchpad Replacement
1. The touchpad is secured to the bottom inside of the keyboard cover
2. To remove the keyboard cover, you must remove the bottom cover
3. Remove the screw or screws holding the keyboard cover
4. Remove the keyboard
5. Remove the keyboard cover
6. The touchpad is connected to the system board by a ribbon cable
7. Remove the touchpad from the bottom of the keyboard cover
8. Insert the new touchpad into the keyboard cover
9. Insert the touchpad cable into the system board
10. Install the keyboard cover
11. Install the keyboard
12. Reinstall the keyboard cover screws
13. Reinstall the bottom cover

== Plastics/frames
Plastics/Frames

Many laptops have durable plastic frames that are light to carry around. These
are inexpensive to replace.

Laptop frame
• Plastic
•• Lightweight, mobile
•• Durable, difficult to break
•• Inexpensive, cost-effective
• Metal
•• More durable than plastic
•• Can be more difficult to repair

.Plastics/Frames Replacement
1. Remove the plastic component
2. Remove any components connected to the plastic
3. Install components on the new plastic
4. Reinstall the new plastic
5. A laptop will have several plastic components
  a. The bezel covering the screen
  b. The top cover, which covers the screen
  c. The bottom cover
  d. The cover where the keyboard fits (the keyboard cover)
    i. Note that this may or may not contain the keyboard, depending on the
       style of the laptop
  e. Multiple access panels that insert into the bottom cover

== Speaker
Speaker

Speakers are usually found integrated in the laptop. Typically, these are not of
the best quality, but they do allow you to hear audio, when needed.

Speaker

Speaker replacement is a relatively simple repair. Correctly diagnose the
problem and be sure you have the right drivers in the operating system. If the
issue is no sound, the problem could be as simple as a loose wire. The speakers
are usually installed under the faceplate. Typically the speakers will be above
the keyboard with an assortment of controls, like the power button in
particular.

Speaker Above the Button Control Board


The speakers could also be below the keyboard with the touchpad. In any case, be
careful not to break any connections. When buying replacement parts, get a pair
of speakers since if one has failed, the other could be near the end of its
life. Matched speakers will provide a better experience. Locate the speaker
connection which could be on the motherboard or on a separate sound board. There
will be a pair of wires on the connector. Remove the connector from the board
using the connector and not by pulling the wires. Be careful of other
connections involved. Very often, the buttons on the top faceplate simply line
up with the actual buttons soldered to the control board.


Speaker
• Self-contained - Portable audio
• Not the highest quality - Very small
• Often stereo (L/R) - May include a subwoofer!

.Speaker Replacement
1. Determine the number and location of the speakers you must replace. A high-end laptop may have multiple speakers, and may even have a subwoofer
2. Typically
  Remove the bottom cover
  Remove the old speaker by removing the screws holding it
  Remove connecting cable
  Install new speaker and connecting cable
  Reinstall the bottom cover
3. In some laptops, you may need to remove the keyboard and keyboard cover to
   access the speakers

== System board
System Board

These boards are proprietary to the laptop make and model, and the replacement
process is often a bit complex.


System board

Replacing the System Board is the type of situation that really challenges the
repair vs. replace decision. The replacement requires a complete teardown of the
unit. The system board or motherboard is under all of the peripherals and system
components. It will have components on both sides: CPU on top, memory and
expansion on the bottom. This will be your ultimate test of documentation and
procedure. If you remove the screws from something and it doesn’t move, flip the
case over and see if there is another screw or two still holding it. The
organization and documentation of the screws in particular is critical. There’s
nothing worse than your last screw being the wrong size. Take pictures and use
nonconductive labels to help reassemble the unit. You will be taking everything
apart except the LCD screen so give yourself at least an hour or two of
uninterrupted time. Here’s a nice comparison of a notebook and a standard ATX
motherboard:

ATX and Laptop System Boards Comparison. Photo curtesy of Kyle Wiens [ifixit.com] and  Max Tomchenko.

This is a test! You’re looking at probably four screw sizes and lots of little
connections. Take the laptop apart slowly and deliberately. Take notes, use your
cell/smart phone camera, and give yourself every aid possible. A small
compartmented storage container will work. Even an empty egg carton would be
ideal here.


System board
• Proprietary
•• Built to fit
• Replacement isn’t easy
•• Swap the entire board
•• Most components are on the system board

.System Board Replacement
1. Determine if the system board is mounted to the top cover or to the bottom
   cover
2. Remove access panels
3. Remove bottom cover or top cover
4. Remove additional components (HDD, battery, etc.) if necessary
5. Remove components from system board (RAM, processor, Wi-Fi card, battery)
6. Remove all connection cables
7. Unscrew system board from laptop
8. Install new system board
9. Reinstall all connection cables
10. Reinstall all components
11. Reinstall additional components (HDD, battery, etc.) if necessary
12. Reinstall covers
13. Configure BIOS
  a. May need to record system serial number on new system board
  b. Configure system date/time
  c. Configure additional BIOS settings


== CPU
CPU

Laptop Central Processing Units are designed to consume less power and generate
less heat than desktop CPUs. Since laptops often run on battery power,
components are designed to limit power consumption. Due to the smaller, more
tightly packed form factor of laptops, it is difficult to dissipate heat that
builds up inside the laptop case. They may also integrate features with the CPU,
such as the video controller.


CPU

The CPU replacement is not as tough as it would seem. It is also an opportunity
to look at possible upgrade options using manufacturer recommendations. Select
the best match considering cost and performance. The heat sink should be visible
after removing the keyboard and bezel assembly. Because the height is not
available as it would be in a conventional PC, you’ll find that the heat
exchange assembly occupies up to one fourth of the surface area of the system
board, using copper piping to get the processor heat to the fan in a single long
flat package. Once the heat exchange assembly is removed, the processor will be
visible. Here we see both the processor and the heat exchanger. Note the old
thermal paste still stuck to the processor and the bottom of the heat exchanger.
Be sure to clean the old thermal paste off both surfaces.


CPU
• Designed for mobility
•• Power management
• Integrated features
•• Memory controller, video controller
• Not very upgradable
•• Replaceable, but not upgradeable
• Often slower than desktops
•• Size and heat are disadvantages


.CPU Replacement
1. Determine if the CPU is can be replaced
  a. Most laptop CPUs are not replaceable. They are soldered to the system
     board. The entire board must be replaced.
2. Remove bottom cover or access panel
3. Remove fan assembly or heat pipes that cover the CPU.
4. Remove old CPU
5. Remove thermal paste from heat pipe
6. Add thermal paste to new CPU, if required
7. Reinstall CPU
8. Reinstall screw or fan
9. Reinstall bottom cover
