= 1.2 – Compare and contrast features of Microsoft Windows versions.


Microsoft Windows Versions

Windows 7, 8, 8.1, and 10 have many elements in common, but there are also some
differences in what each provides.


Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! This article will cover Exam objective 1.2.
During the evolution of Windows, each version, from Windows 7 to Windows 10, has
altered the interface in order to improve both the performance and the user
experience. As you’ll see, features are added or removed, renamed and/or
rearranged. Your first experience with a new Windows version will always be a
learning experience.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

== Windows 7 Windows 7

File management—Windows Explorer is the utility to manage the files on the
computer.

Libraries—Libraries showed files of a specific type in one place, even though
they were stored in different locations on the computer. Default libraries are
Documents, Pictures, Videos, and Music. This is the default location for Windows
Explorer on Windows 7.

Aero—Provides visual enhancements to the desktop and GUI experience. Requires a
video card with enough performance for full support.


Windows 7

Windows 7 contains good examples of features that were later reorganized or
removed.

Aero

Aero incorporates various animation and transparency effects into the desktop
using hardware acceleration. Aero is most recognizable by the Aero Glass theme,
providing a see-through appearance to the borders of the displayed windows.
There are several additional features that can increase productivity. Windows
Flip 3D lets you use the Windows and Tab keys together to literally flip through
all open windows and programs, letting you see the contents of the window and
flip until you find the one you want. This is useful if you have a few programs
open. This feature was replaced in Windows 10 by Task View which uses the same
keystrokes.

Another useful improvement is Live thumbnails. Items displayed on the Taskbar
are usually stacked if there are multiple office documents or folders open. Live
thumbnails allow you to hover the mouse over the stack, showing the items across
the top of the taskbar so that you can choose your item.
 

Aero Interface

Windows 7 brought more aero enhancements. Aero Peek clears all open windows when
the mouse cursor is hovering over the Show Desktop button. Aero Shake lets you
hold the title bar of one window and shake it right and left, minimizing all
open windows except the one you’re shaking. Aero Glass was replaced in Windows
8/8.1 with a solid color scheme in order to support the Metro UI. Windows 10
brought back Aero features for certain items such as the Action Center and the
Start menu.

Gadgets

Gadgets in Windows 7 provide small applets that can be positioned on the windows
desktop. Examples of these applets include a clock, weather, system details, and
currency converters. Here’s a legacy shot of Windows Gadgets.

Windows Gadgets

A gadget can be virtually anything. However, there was a problem with gadgets.
Gadgets were identified as a security vulnerability and prior to the release of
Windows 8, were shut down. You can be tested on these so study these to err on
the side of preparedness.

User account control

User account control (UAC) is another feature that was introduced in earlier
versions of Windows and remains a part of the Operating System to this day.

In the image below on the left, we see the Standard user prompt. Administrative
privileges are needed and the credentials of a user with these privileges are
required to elevate and make changes. On the right of the image, a user with
administrative privileges will see a simple consent UI. Here is the dreaded
showstopper!

User Account Control – UAC

The UAC was designed to prevent unauthorized changes to your system. This
feature was not well received in the community as it was considered a nuisance.
Its default configuration is fairly strict, requiring user intervention for any
Windows setting changes. As a result, many users just turned it off. If you took
the time to work with the settings, you could live in harmony with it and
benefit from the protection it provides. Generally speaking, moving forward
requires Administrator access.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002


Windows 7 • Released in 2009 • Most enterprise users operate Windows 7 (forced
to upgrade to Windows 7 after Windows XP end of life was announced), and are in
the process of upgrading to Windows 10 • Can downgrade from Windows 8 or Windows
10 to Windows 7 • Support ended on January 15, 2015, and extended support ends
January 14, 2020 • New features o Windows PowerShell o Touch and handwriting
recognition o Ability to pin applications to the task bar o Each user has
“Libraries” such as Documents, Music, Pictures, and Video o BitLocker drive
encryption • Editions o Starter: basic edition supporting 2GB of RAM o Home
Basic: basic edition sold in emerging markets o Home Premium: sold to home users
o Professional: supports Remote Desktop, 192GB of RAM, EFS, and software
restriction policies o Enterprise: intended for Enterprise users and sold
through volume licensing o Ultimate: same features as Enterprise but available
through individual licensing Hardware o Available in 32-Bit or 64-Bit o Supports
two physical processors 

== Windows 8 Windows 8

Start screen—The Start Menu has been replaced with the Start Screen. This is a
screen with tiles for installed applications and system menus.

Windows Store—This is an online store for downloading and purchasing new
software.

Microsoft Accounts for sign-in—In addition to local accounts, a Microsoft online
account can be used to login. This allows transferring appearance and system
settings between computers.

Settings—The most-used user settings became available in a separate Settings
menu.

Control Panel—This allows more system configuration and is still available.

Recommended multi-touch display screen—To emphasize that the operating system
can be used on tablets and allow advanced GUI interaction, Microsoft has
recommended that a multi-touch display be used with Windows 8.

Libraries—Introduced in Windows 7, libraries are still available, but not
enabled by default. Instead, the folders Documents, Pictures, Videos, and Music
are now normal folders that are created for each user.


Windows 8, Windows 8.1

Windows 8 was quickly updated to Windows 8.1 in order to address several issues.
Even still, Windows 8/8.1 was still a shock to those familiar with earlier
Windows versions. Windows 8/8.1 was released to make Windows more accessible on
tablets and touch devices. The differences are easily evident and we’ll list a
few.

Metro UI

Next on our list is the infamous Metro User Interface. Available as a standard
feature in Windows 8 and 8.1 and as an add-on in later versions, clicking Start
will toggle you back to the Metro UI Start Screen which is shown below. This
live tile-based interface allows you to pin items to the Start screen and the
small down arrow at the lower left will display all programs alphabetically.
This interface type is desirable to those operating on a tablet or a device
lacking a physical mouse and keyboard. A tablet-friendly live tile-based Metro
interface is shown here.

Metro User Interface – Windows 8 & 8.1

Clicking Start again will display the traditional Desktop appearance:

Windows 8 desktop

Charms Bar

Another Metro UI feature is the Charms bar. Charms are shortcuts to other
features such as Search, Share, Start, Devices, and Settings. The Charms bar is
available from any part of the system such as the desktop or from an
application. Bring it up by hovering the mouse at the top or bottom-right
corners of the display. The Charms bar can also be brought up with the keystroke
Win+C or just by swiping your finger inward on a touch screen from the right
side of the screen. Charms are shown below, hovering over the right side of the
display.

Windows 8 Charms

When activated, you can use one of the five available Charms to Search in the
current location (magnifying glass icon) or to Share your current screen or web
page via email (circular icon). The Start logo serves the same purpose as the
taskbar icon, switching you between interface types. The Devices icon allows you
to send a screenshot of your current display to another device such as a
printer, another desktop, or your phone, if connected. The Settings Charm is
probably the most useful feature in that it provides quick access to six of the
high-level functions such as network settings (Wi-Fi or LAN), Notifications, and
Power. If you need a deeper level of control, click Change PC Settings and
you’ll see a truncated version of the Control Panel which provides access to
frequently used settings.

OneDrive

OneDrive is Microsoft’s Cloud Storage solution. OneDrive is integrated into the
operating system and can be seamlessly accessed when using Live sign-In.

Windows OneDrive

Otherwise, OneDrive is accessed with a username and password. Allowing you to
access and share content wherever you are, OneDrive is a good way to sync and
share files, photos, office documents, and related work content. Once
configured, your work and personal data can be manually or automatically backed
up to the Cloud.

Windows Store or the Microsoft Store

The Windows Store/Microsoft Store allows mobile devices and desktop users to use
and share the same applications and content such as movies or music.

Windows Store

Once purchased, the content is available by user login and is available all the
time. Many items are free such as Windows tweaks and toys along with business
productivity enhancements. There is a limit of 10 installs per purchase.

Multiple monitors

Multiple monitors are supported in all current versions of Windows. Windows 8
and above allow the taskbar to span across all active displays.

Screen orientation & resolution

From the main display, you can extend the display across the monitors, duplicate
the display on each device (great for presentations), or display on only one
display.

dows 8 • Released in 2012 • Intended for use on tablets and touch devices.
Microsoft assumed that most computers would be touch by time Windows 8 was
released, but touch features did not become popular on laptops and desktops.  •
Currently supported by Microsoft • New features o UEFI integration o Support for
USB 3.0 o Recovery with Refresh and Reset functions o Ability to log in with a
PIN, picture password, or Windows Live account o Ability to purchase Apps from
the Windows Store • Editions o Windows 8 Basic version: contains basic features;
can purchase a “Pro Pack” to upgrade to Windows 8 Pro o Windows 8 Pro: contains
BitLocker, Hyper-V, ability to join a domain o Windows 8 Enterprise: similar to
Pro, but sold through volume licensing • Only available as an upgrade, not
available as a full version o Full version sold only to PC manufacturers for
installation on new computers 

== Windows 8.1 Windows 8.1

Refinements—Windows 8.1 is a more refined version of Windows 8, with no
fundamental changes. Most enhancements are related to the user interface, making
it easier to use, especially on computers without touch displays.

Windows 8.1 • Released in 2013 • Available as a free upgrade to Windows 8 •
Available as a full license • New features o Enhanced user interface based on
complaints from users of Windows 8 

== Windows 10 Windows 10

Cortana— This is a personal assistant you can talk to by voice or typing, and
get a response in text or speech. It can set reminders, calendar appointments,
and answer questions using the Bing search engine.

Start menu—It combines the start menu of Windows 7 with a panel similar to the
Windows 8 start screen, and doesn’t obstruct the whole screen and the desktop.


Windows 10

Windows 10 solves the issue of switching between live tiles and the desktop
which is painfully present in Windows 8/8.1. The new interface uses the Start
button in two ways. First, clicking the Start button brings up a combination of
choices. You can choose an app from the live tiles on the left side of the menu
or you can use the right side to access your programs and settings such as
system settings and the power button.

Windows 10 Start Screen

Second, right-clicking the Start button displays the Power menu which provides
an enhanced set of choices more suited to power users and administrators. Many
of these options take you to the Control Panel versions of the selected feature.
You can directly access the Event Viewer, Device Manager, and Computer
Management along with the Run box and Command Prompt. The full Control Panel is
still accessible using Cortana by typing Control Panel.
 
Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Windows 10 • Released in 2015 • New features o Support for universal apps (an
app that runs on PCs, tablets, smartphones, Xbox, and Internet of Things
devices) o Microsoft Edge web browser o DirectX 12 o Cortana digital assistant o
Ability to search the internet through the start menu o Updates are mandatory •
Editions o Home: intended for home users o Pro: supports advanced features such
as Remote Desktop, domains, group policy, active directory o Education: like
Enterprise edition but for educational institutions o Enterprise: like Pro, but
sold in volume licensing deals only • Windows Insider Programs o Allows select
individuals to receive advanced copies of Windows 10 Operating System and
updates for testing • When Windows 10 was first released, Microsoft offered a
free upgrade to any Windows 7 or 

== Corporate vs. personal needs Corporate vs. Personal Needs

Microsoft Windows is the most popular workstation OS for both personal and
corporate use. Although they have a very similar look and feel, the Professional
Editions allow more efficient and secure use in corporate environments and offer
additional features.

Corporate vs. personal needs

=== Domain access Domain Access

This allows access to the network domain. The computer will be registered on the
domain and domain users can be used to log in.

Domain access

Windows 10 allows three types of accounts to sign in to Windows: a local account
(offline account) which only provides access to the local computer, a Microsoft
account (requiring a valid email address), and a network ID. Windows 8/8.1 uses
the same account types. Windows 7 users can log in (not sign in) with local
accounts and network IDs but can’t log in with Microsoft accounts. A Microsoft
account signs you in to the local computer and provides access to cloud
resources such as OneDrive. A network ID signs you in to a Windows domain to
which the local computer belongs.

ows Corporate Features Domains User accounts, computers and security policies
are registered with a central server, known as an “Active Directory” server 
 
These users and computers become part of a “domain” 
 
A computer must be “joined” to the domain.  When joined, it checks the Active
Directory server for the correct policies to apply to itself. 
 
When a user logs in to a computer that is on the domain, the computer
authenticates the user with the Active Directory server.  The computer checks
the server for policies to apply to the user account that has logged in. 
 
=== BitLocker BitLocker

This is a drive encryption utility. All data on a disk is encrypted to prevent
unauthorized access, which may be especially useful on laptops that may leave
the protected office environment and may be lost or stolen.


BitLocker

BitLocker is a method of whole drive encryption. BitLocker can encrypt entire
volumes and removable devices. BitLocker works in conjunction with the host’s
TPM (Trusted Platform Model) chip. The user must create a passcode or passphrase
in order to unlock the drive in the event it is moved to another machine. This
is a critical step. If your system crashes and you move the drive, the drive
will be inaccessible without the passcode.

BitLocker Provides full-disk encryption. 
 
If the computer contains a TPM, the encryption key is stored inside the TPM.
When BitLocker is enabled, the computer can load to Windows, but none of the
additional files are decrypted until the user successfully logs in.  Operating
system data is stored in a separate partition. 
 
Can store the encryption key in Active Directory. 
 
If the computer does not contain a TPM, the computer will not load to Windows.
A user must enter a password when the computer oots.  An encryption key could
also be stored on a USB. 
 
Possible to decrypt contents through a “cold boot” attack. 
 

=== Media center Media Center

Available on Windows 7 Home Premium, Windows Media Center is a player for
slideshows, videos, and music from files, optical drives, local networks, and
selected streaming services.

Media Center

Windows Media Center has been discontinued and is not available for Windows 10.
In order to play DVDs in Windows 10, you will need an app that plays DVDs such
as Windows DVD Player. Media Centeris a digital video recorder and media player
that was originally offered in earlier editions of Windows. It was also
available as a paid add-on for Windows 8 Pro.

Allowed users to record video and play media.  Discontinued in 2009.  Supported
media files, DVDs, TV tuner cards and photos. 
 
=== Branchcache BranchCache

Beneficial in corporate environments with multiple branch offices, this creates
a local cache of files from file servers and web servers for quicker access.


BranchCache

BranchCache uses the local servers on a WAN to cache data from remote servers
for faster retrieval. BranchCache is often used by corporate offices in order to
  optimize the access of resources on remote networks. Each client has a cache
  and acts as an alternate source for content requests from the local network.

Branchcache Bandwidth optimization feature 
 
Reduces WAN traffic by caching data on local servers 
 
When a client downloads data from a remote server, it first checks if a current
version of the data is available on the local server. 
 
If the data is available locally, it will download the data locally.  If the
data is available on the remote server, it will download from the remote, and
save a copy to the local server for use by other users. 
 

=== EFS EFS

Standing for Encrypting File System, this is a file system feature that can be
configured to encrypt volumes, folders, and files. This protects data from an
attacker with physical access to the computer.

Encryption File System (EFS)

EFS encrypts files and folders in order to protect the data. Although not as
secure as full drive encryption, EFS can be effectively used to protect the data
on a computer’s hard drive.

EFS Encrypting File System 
 
Without encryption, a hacker with physical access to the computer can remove the
hard disk drive and access all file contents (even without knowing any username
or passwords) FS encrypts all files 
 
EFS decrypts files in the background so that 

== Desktop styles/user interface Desktop Styles/User Interface

Windows versions in the scope of the exam, between Windows 7 and Windows 10,
provide a similar user experience. The important differences are Aero, Start
Menu and Start Screen differences, and the Settings menu.

Windows also offers different interfaces: keyboard and mouse entry, touch
screen, and Cortana voice recognition.


Desktop styles/user interface

Desktop styles and user interfaces are dependent on the Windows version and are
covered above. That’s all for objective 1.2. You are on your way! Good luck on
the test. 

Desktop Styles A typical Windows user interface 
 
 
The bottom of the screen contains the task bar, which contains icons for each
running application 
 
 
In the right corner of the task bar is the clock.  Icons for background
applications appear there.  The notifications page shows different
notifications, and provide access to frequent settings The start menu provides
access to application
 
