= 1.3 – Summarize general OS installation considerations and upgrade methods.





Installation and Upgrades

To start using an operating system, it needs to be installed on the computer
first. To start the installation process, the computer needs to be booted with
the installation media.


Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! We will continue to examine main domain 1
by reviewing Objective 1.3 “Summarize general OS installation considerations and
upgrade methods.” This section will cover quite a bit of information. Remember
that we will cover the objectives as stated and that we recommend you use
self-tests (CertBlaster) and online labs (LabConnection) to expand your
comprehension. Let’s get started!

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

== Boot methods Boot Methods

A boot method allows the user to select how to boot a computer and what media to
use. There are multiple ways to boot a computer.

Boot Methods


=== USB External Drive/Flash Drive (USB/eSATA)

An external device may be connected to a computer from which to boot. There are
many types of external devices, for example: external optical drive, external
hard disk, and external flash drive.

Common interfaces used to connect the external drives are USB and eSATA. A USB
flash drive is a very common way to install an operating system.

USB – External/hot swappable drive

Most PC components have a fully functional USB adaptation. This allows for
communication expansion, control flexibility, and storage addition. USB
expansion devices using conventional hard disks or SSDs are available and are
separated by capacity. Choose the right size for the desired result.

Insert bootable USB drive into PC 
 
USB drive must be formatted to be “bootable” BIOS must support ability to boot
from USB 
 
=== CD-ROM Optical Disc (CD-ROM, DVD, Blu-ray)

A computer may have a built-in drive to read optical discs. A computer can be
booted from this device with an installation disc inserted. This is a very
common way to install an operating system on a computer.

CD-ROM / DVD

Most desktops and laptops have internal Optical drives. The media in the drive
can be bootable depending on what it is. This method requires checking the UEFI
or BIOS firmware and setting the Optical drive as priority before any other
bootable device, including USB as you’ll see.

CD-ROM Boot from bootable CD-ROM 
 

=== DVD DVD Boot from bootable DVD 
 

=== PXE Network Boot (PXE)

Preboot eXecution Environment (PXE) allows the user to boot from network
resources. The computer that boots will need to be connected to a network. The
network and the remote server that hosts the bootable image need to be
configured.

This is a common way to install an operating system in a corporate environment,
where network and server resources are available, and it allows a user to
quickly set up many computers similarly.

PXE

Here is a great way to get your desired result onto hundreds of PCs. A high
volume server is necessary if you’re working at high volumes. Set your BIOS or
UEFI to access the PXE (Preboot eXecution Environment) which will enable the
UEFI/BIOS to find the installation files over the network. When the files are
located and installation begins, no more interaction is required, leaving the
tech free to repeat the process again. When the systems are properly
preconfigured, they only need be turned on in order to start the process.

PXE Boot from Preboot Execution Environment 
 
The computer will query a server for the operating system and configuration
settings The computer will download and install necessary installation files
over the network Works over DHCP • The device being booted sends a special DHCP
request requesting PXE information • The PXE server will reply with the correct
parameters 
 


=== Solid state/flash drives Solid state/flash drives

SSD (solid-state drive) technology was first introduced with the USB flash
drive. The SSD uses NAND memory and delivers dramatically faster performance.
With all data stored in memory, access times are dramatically faster than the
conventional hard disk. SSD’s are 2.5” wide, the same as laptop drives but
slightly thinner. SSD drives can also be found in ultra-portable devices using
the 1.8” form factor.


=== Netboot Netboot

Netboot is Apple’s version of PXE and as such uses most of the same startup
initialization routines. Here’s an interesting point that you will not be tested
on. When Protocols were initially recognized as necessary (yes decades ago), the
BOOTP protocol was born from DHCP. Instead of referring to all of the protocols
that make up DHCP individually, we just use that term. In 2015, BOOTP was an
instrumental part of the UEFI.

NetBoot Apple technology Allows a Mac to boot from the network 
 

=== External/hot-swappable drive External/Hot-Swappable Drive Can boot from
eSATA drive or other external drive 
 

=== Internal hard drive (partition) Internal Fixed Disk (HDD/SSD)

An internally connected hard disk may be used from which to boot. The disk may
include the operating system installation image or have the operating system
installed. This is the most common way to boot a computer after the operating
system installation was completed.  Internal Hard Drive (Partition)

It’s important to distinguish between a hard disk and a partition. In many
simple configurations, there is one bootable partition on a disk. But one disk
can have more than one partition, as it may be useful to have different
operating systems on the same computer (multiboot). Also, one logical partition
can span across multiple physical hard disks.

Internal hard drive (partition)

One of the simplest boot methods is to allow the machine to boot normally from
its internal storage, such as a partition on the hard disk or solid state drive
(SSD). SSD drives and HDD drives are partitioned the same way.

Internal HDD Partition Most common way of booting Can divide an HDD into
multiple partitions Can boot from each partition separately (each partition may
contain a separate operating 

== Type of installations Installation Types

Depending on the current state of the computer, available hardware and
environment, and desired setup, there are multiple ways to install an operating
system.

Type of Installations

Regardless of its intended use, all Microsoft devices need some type of
operating system installed on it. Because of the number of devices and
deployments there are many choices.


=== Unattended installation Unattended installation—This requires preparation
ahead of time and best suited for cases where many computers need to be
installed with the same configuration. Requires a special server with the
installation image and the installation script.

Unattended installation

A Windows installation requires user input to complete. A way to avoid this is
to perform an unattended installation. This method uses an answer file in order
to supply the responses to the localization, password, and domain information
questions that are prompted during the installation process.

Also known as a silent installation The operating system installer is pre-
programmed with all the required settings Once, executed, it installs without
user intervention 
 
 
=== In-place upgrade In-place upgrade—This is an installation method that
installs a newer operating system over an older one. Depending on the OS and
versions, it may preserve the settings, files, and applications.

In-Place Upgrade

During an In-Place upgrade, the same methods apply as with a clean install
EXCEPT you cannot upgrade from a 32-bit Operating system to a 64-bit. Upgrading
from 32-bit to 64-bit requires a clean install due to the massive number of
basic architecture and core files changes that are needed. Fortunately, your
32-bit programs will still work in the 64-bit environment as provisions were
made for that. An upgrade install is supported for the same bit depth (32-bit or
64-bit) for the OS versions currently supported. For example, remember that you
can upgrade from OS 7 to 8/10. You will have to pay extra if you are going from
a Starter or minimum version to a more fully featured version such as
Professional or above.

In-Place Upgrade The operating system is “upgraded” to a newer version Operating
system files are replaced Applications and user files remain It’s usually
possible to revert to the old installation 
 

=== Clean install Clean install—This installation disregards previous data at
the destination. It can be used if the computer doesn’t have any operating
system installed or if the intent is to completely delete the previous operating
system, files, applications, and settings.

Clean install

All current versions of Microsoft Windows, and its variants, are available as
downloads and can be used to create physical copies of the installation media
(DVD 4GB). Always download and run the Upgrade Assistant to insure
compatibility. It is wise to make physical copies as well since you never know.
Make sure you have the right version (32-bit or 64-bit). If you inadvertently
install the 32-bit version on a 64-bit capable machine, you will suffer
decreased memory availability, storage media limitations, and a generally less
than perfect experience. You can also visit Microsoft’s Compatibility Center,
however access to this site changes as features and programs are modified. In
other words, it’s probably gone.

Clean Install The entire disk is erased and the operating system is installed
All user files and programs are deleted 
 

=== Repair installation Repair installation—Some operating systems provide this
option. It is usually initiated by booting with the installation media of the
same version of operating system that was previously installed, then selecting
the repair option from the menu. It rewrites system files and settings, while
keeping the user files. This mode may be useful for repair purposes, if the
installed operating system is not bootable, or shows serious issues that can’t
be fixed otherwise.

Repair installation – Recovery partition

It is suggested that within the first hour of ownership, you should create a
backup/restore set. If you haven’t done it, please take the 20 minutes to do it
next time.

If you don’t have a backup/restore set, it’s okay. If you have purchased your
device from a major manufacturer, it is highly likely that you also have a
hidden or hard-to-access recovery partition on your disk.  We can get the system
back using the recovery installation. Unfortunately, none of your files will
remain but on the bright side, the system will be restored back to its
uncluttered out of the box configuration.

Depending on the manufacturer, you’ll need to hit a specific keystroke
combination at boot in order to access your recovery tools. The key is most
likely not F8 but is probably in the same neighborhood, such as F12. If you are
really jammed and these options don’t work, please buy a set of the backup disks
from the manufacturer as we discussed earlier.

Repair Installation The existing operating system is repaired The operating
system detects files that are damaged or missing and repairs or replaces them
The operating system version remains the same All user files and programs remain 
 



=== Multiboot Multiboot—This method uses a boot manager to install multiple
operating systems on a single computer. The boot manager maintains the boot
configurations and lets the user select what operating system to boot when
starting the computer. It’s recommended to install separate operating systems on
separate hard disks, or at least separate logical partitions.

Multiboot

Today’s systems have a lot of power, memory, and storage capacity. They are
easily capable of supporting multiple operating systems. Since we are not
talking about virtualization here, these systems won’t be running
simultaneously. We’ll discuss that later. Let’s consider setting up a machine to
run two different operating systems. Each operating system needs its own
partition. This could be a large drive portioned into at least two dedicated
logical drives or for ultimate segregation, two separate hard drives. There are
a lot of good reasons to do this. Regardless, the end result is two identical
hardware platforms behaving identically. Reasons for implementing Multiboot are
as simple as having the day shift worker separated from the night shift in a
tamperproof environment or for beta testing virtually any hardware or software
and accurately predicting the impact on related systems.

Multiboot Ability to have multiple operating systems on the same drive Can boot
from more than one operating system 
 



=== Remote network installation Remote network installation—PXE network boot can
use a remote server with the operating system’s installation files to install
the OS on the computer. Depending on the configuration of the server, the
installation process may require selecting installation options, just like
booting from a CD, or be an unattended installation.

Remote network installation

One item remains when taking human involvement completely out of the picture:
how do we propose to move data? Data can move through the network in one of two
ways: by pulling the data into a machine (e.g. typing a web address) or by
pushing data into a machine (e.g. having stock, weather, or news information
automatically delivered to the desktop). This last method is referred to as Push
technology.

Remote Network Installation The operating system installer downloads over the
network Once downloaded, an unattended installation is Typical for enterprise
environments 
 


=== Image deployment Image deployment—If many computers have identical hardware
and need identical operating systems, settings, and applications installed, it
can be accomplished with image deployment. There are different software tools
for this task, but usually the process involves the following steps:

    Select one computer.  Perform a clean installation of the desired operating
    system, configure, and install applications.  Create the image from this
    computer.  Make this image available on the network or portable media.  Copy
    the image to other computers.

Image deployment

The use of drive imaging greatly reduces the chance for anomalies between
installations. A single image from a tested, benchmarked, and validated system
can serve as the foundation for hundreds of clean installs using Windows AIK or
ADK, depending on version.

Unintended Installation

We talked about the PXE earlier and the image is the source for those
installations. An unattended install can be completed using an image and an
answer file.

Image Deployment A company may create a custom Windows image, which is a version
of the operating system with specific settings unique to the company.  It might
include specific security policies, settings, and applications.  The enterprise
can distribute this image across multiple computers automatically. 
 


=== Recovery partition Recovery partition—Some operating systems provide an
option to create a recovery partition during the installation. It will be a
bootable partition that can later be used and contains diagnostic and repair
tools, or may be used for a repair installation.

Recovery Partition The recovery partition contains a new version of windows.  It
is contained on a separate partition of the hard disk drive.  If the user wishes
to restore to a clean image of the operating system, he can access the
partition. 
 




=== Refresh/restore Refresh/restore—If configured beforehand, it may be possible
to restore the operating system to a restore point. It is recommended to create
a restore point before significant configuration changes and software
installations. If something unexpected happens, the settings may be reverted.
Partitioning

Refresh/restore

Another way to regain control over a system that’s run amok is through System
Restore. This method requires that clean restore points be created before there
is a problem, ideally when the PC is running great. A restore point is usually
created automatically before any major system changes, software installs, or
updates. If you have problems, roll back to a restore point that was created
mere seconds before the problem started to occur. The system will take advantage
of periods of inactivity in order to create random restore points. This works
more often than not.

System Refresh is essentially the same operation as System Restore, however the
refresh also restores Metro UI and related data. Metro related data is referred
to as “Modern” and if you are a longtime computer user, a lot of your installed
programs and “Go To” apps are not modern and therefore will need to be
reinstalled. It is in your best interest to get the best backup you can.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Refresh/Restore Refresh and restore are recovery options available on Windows 8
and later. 
 
Refresh repairs all missing and damaged system files.  It does not erase user
data or applications. 
 
Restore performs a clean install of W




== Partitioning Partitioning creates one or more logical drives on a physical
disk. Each partition can be separately formatted and have a separate file
system. In Windows, each partition can have a separate drive letter.

Partitioning

After gaining an understanding of Operating System installations, we’ll take a
closer look at the partitions Operating Systems are installed on. A good grasp
of the devices and the way data is stored on them is essential to your ultimate
understanding of the operational capabilities and the way to effectively
maximize performance. You can double the production time of a program if you
understand the storage device speeds, how to store often used portions of a
program on fast devices, and how to store the lesser/seldom used portions on
your standard or slow drives.

We will use a standard magnetic hard drive to demonstrate the principles of
digital storage. The drive consists of several magnetic platters that are
readable and writable on both sides. During the manufacturing process, the
platters are low level formatted into tracks and sectors. This is referred to as
low level because there is a higher level format that is used by the operating
system. The drive leaves the factory formatted into platters with concentric
rings divided into 512 byte sectors. For the operating system, the size of each
sector is fixed but the sectors are grouped into Clusters. Remember the
difference between sectors, tracks, and clusters from this section.

Drive Allocation

Partition A physical disk can be divided into one ore more logical disks.  Each
logical disk is known as a partition and can be assigned a drive letter. 

=== Dynamic Dynamic—This is a disk with a more complex configuration that
doesn’t have the limitations of a basic disk. It allows creating partitions that
can span multiple physical hard disks (software RAID).

Dynamic

In Windows, everything we’ve covered to this point was discussed in relation to
Basic disks (one disk with one partition structure). It’s now time to have some
fun or become irrevocably convoluted. Dynamic disks can be but are not limited
to a single disk or volume. All volumes on dynamic disks are called dynamic
volumes. A dynamic volume has considerable advantages over basic volumes.
Dynamic volumes can be spanned over multiple drives and it’s possible to create
up to 2,000 volumes. 32 volumes is a reasonable recommendation. Another
advantage of dynamic disk spanning is that they can assume the redundancy
aspects of RAID 0 and RAID 5, so if any portion of the span goes down it can
automatically rebuild the lost data.

Dynamic A dynamic disk allows you to create a volume that spans multiple
physical disks (such as RAID 5) 
 
Data about the dynamic disks is stored inside a dynamic disk volume.  The volume
is replicated across all physical disks. 
 


=== Basic Basic—This is the most common disk type, separated into logical
partitions.

Basic

When a new hard drive is installed on a Windows system, it is configured as a
basic disk. A basic disk is independent of other disks and can be formatted to
any compatible portioning system including MBR or GPT.

Basic A basic disk can contain multiple partitions, but each partition must be
comprised of contiguous, unallocated space 
 




=== Primary Primary—You can have only one logical drive. Windows can only boot
from a primary partition, so at least one is required.

Primary

When a new drive is installed, it will need to be initialized and formatted. If
there are no other options selected, one primary partition will be created.
Next, format the partition to the desired filesystem. This formatted partition
is referred to as a volume.

Primary A primary partition is a partition where an operating system’s boot
files are located 
 
There can be a maximum of four primary partitions on a physical disk 
 
The MBR or Master Boot Record identifies the first sector of the hard disk
(where the operating system’s boot files are located).  The MBR allows the
computer to boot. 
 
MBR is limited to drives of 2TB or smaller A hard disk drive is divided into
sectors Newer drives use sectors of 4KB in size, and this 



=== Extended Extended—You can have more than one logical drive.

Extended

A Disk can only contain one Extended partition. The disk’s contents can be
resized to a smaller primary partition, freeing up unallocated space that can be
dedicated to each partition. The Extended partition can be further divided.

he extended partition contains all the remaining free space 
 
It can be subdivided into multiple segments There can be a maximum of one
extended partition per physical disk 
 

=== Logical Logical—A logical drive is represented by a drive letter in Windows.
Make sure you distinguish between disk, partition, and logical drive. These can
be assigned one-to-one in the simplest configuration, but are not limited to
one.

Logical

The Extended partition can be divided into many logical partitions. The
dimensions of the logical partitions are found at the beginning of the extended
partition, not in the MBR. Logical partitions do not have to fill the entire
extended partition. Empty space can be retained in the extended partition which
can then be split up into additional logical partitions if needed.

Logical A logical partition is a virtual section of the physical hard disk that
acts as an independent drive. 
 


=== GPT GPT—A GUID Partition Table contains information on how the disk is
partitioned. Compared to MBR, it supports larger drives, and more partitions per
drive.

GPT

The GUID partition table (GPT) is the replacement partition method for the time
tested MBR. This is special because along with other important advancements, GPT
can support large hard disks to the tune of 18 Exabytes. For comparison, the MBR
limit is 2.2TB.

GPT GUID Partition Table Lists the location and type of each partition on the
hard disk Newer than MBR 



== File system types/formatting File System Types/Formatting

The file system allows storing, managing, and accessing files on a partition. An
operating system usually supports different file systems, and a partition needs
to be formatted with a specific file system before usage.

Filesystem types / formatting

Here, we’ll take a deeper look at the filesystems available and their uses.

File Systems The file system is a scheme for storing data on a hard disk drive.
To the hard disk, the files are just zeros and ones.  There must be a directory
so that the hard disk can locate each file.  Every file system contains a
“table” or database.  The table contains a list of all the files contained on
the partition, a description of their attributes, and their physical location on
the drive. 


=== ExFAT ExFAT—This is designed for small flash and SSD drives, optimized for
performance and media file storage.

ExFAT

This filesystem is optimized specifically for flash and USB drives. ExFAT
provides large file support and some other meaningful enhancements. For
removable media of this type, a fast filesystem makes a big difference. Security
is at the forefront when it comes to high-capacity high-portability media.
Consider the speed of the most compatible FAT32 without restrictions coupled
with the security of NTFS without the bulky overhead and there you have it. You
can format Flash media using FAT32, NTFS, and exFAT. When formatting the flash
device, capabilities of the device should be considered. Lastly, fall back to
FAT32 if there is a question about compatibility.

exFAT Extended File Allocation Table 
 
Designed by Microsoft for USB drives Good for embedded systems because it has
low power requirements Must pay Microsoft a license fee to use exFAT in your
product 
 



=== FAT32 FAT32—Providing very basic features, it is supported by many operating
systems. Supports partitions up to 2 TB in size.

FAT32

FAT32 was designed to address the new complexities in Windows95 such as long
filenames. The old limit for filenames was 8 characters with a three characters
extension. Imagine an 8 character URL! FAT32 was the filesystem that supported
the most significant advancement in computing of the 20th century.


FAT32 File Allocation Table (previous versions were FAT16 and FAT12) 
 
Used by USB drives Previously used by Windows computers Maximum size of 4GB per
file 
 



=== NTFS NTFS—This is much more advanced than FAT32, supported by all modern
Windows versions. NTFS allows users to set and manage permissions for files and
folders for specific users and groups, making it very useful for secure network
file sharing. Additionally, it provides indexing (for faster file search),
compression, and encryption on the file system level.

NTFS

The New Technology Filesystem (Know this one for the test) is the advancement
that provided servers and systems the headroom necessary to evolve at the
accelerated pace necessary to support the new technologies. The #1 benefit
(IMHO) of NTFS is the Access Control List (ACL) which is a crucial security
enhancement that supports file level access control with administrative control.
NTFS also had large file support of 16 billion bytes! We also received file
compression integrated into the operating system for fixed and removable disks.


NTFS New Technology File System 
 
Current system in use on most Windows computers Optimized for hard disks with
4KB sectors Key features • Journaling (tracks changes to file metadata) • Volume
Shadow Copy (retains previous versions of files) • Transactions (groups multiple
changes guarantees that all changes happen to a file at the same time) •
Encrypting File System (can encrypt and 



=== CDFS CDFS—This is a file system for CDs and DVDs.

CDFS

The CD Filesystem (CSDFS), initially released in Linux, allows for the export of
boot images on a CD. In Microsoft implementations, CDFS replaced MSCDEX. This
filesystem allows data stored on a CD to be treated as an ordinary filesystem at
the command line.

Compact Disk Filing Format 
 
Data structure for CDs 
 
=== NFS NFS—This stands for Network File System, used for file access over a
network between systems. Mostly used in servers, and less in workstations.

NFS

The Network Filesystem (NFS) is the oldest filesystem on our list and is still
in use after revisions over the years (since 1984). Originally a Sun
Microsystems product, Version 2 was the first official release. The new century
saw NFS deploy stronger security, larger file sizes, and stateful protocols
making it comparable to SMB (Server Message Block) revisions. The current
version is NFSv4.

NFS Network File System 
 
Developed by Sun Used by UNIX and macOS Allows users to access files over the
network 
 

=== ext3, ext4 ext3, ext4—These are used by Linux. Ext4 is an updated version
that supports larger partitions, a larger number of files, and improves
performance.

ext3, ext4

ext3 and ext4 are both Linux filesystems. ext3 was a system staple between 2000
through 2008 when it was a replaced by ext4. ext4 offers huge file and system
sizes of 16GB for files and one Exabyte for the filesystem, plus other features
which improve performance and reliability.

ext3, ext4 Extended File System Version 3 and Extended File System Version 4 
 
Used by Linux 
 



=== HFS HFS—This is used natively by MacOS.

HFS

The Hierarchical Filesystem (HFS) is a proprietary file structure developed by
Apple to support the Mac OS. HFS was replaced by HFS Plus which supported larger
file sizes and address space. HFS Plus was replaced by the current Mac file
structure, Apple Filesystem (APFS), in 2017. Since the objectives only refer to
the deprecated (1998) HFS, it would be wise to be familiar with the whole
version history.

HFS Hierarchical File System 
 
Developed by Apple New version is HFS+ (or HFS Extended) Probably the worst
file-system ever (according to Linux users), because it doesn’t support
checksums (which leads to data corruption) 
 


=== Swap partition Swap partition—Swap is a Linux partition that is used when
the computer runs out of physical RAM. Data from RAM overflows to the swap
partition. It reduces the performance, but allows more applications to run at
once.

Swap partition

System performance is increased with the use of swap space. Swap space is
dedicated to storing and swapping data to and from the RAM. Linux creates one or
more partitions for this purpose alone. However, Windows uses a swap file as
opposed to a partition. The process is referred to as Virtual Memory.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Swap Partition When your computer is low on RAM (you have more applications open
than available RAM),  Windows will store the remaining data in a file called the
swap file.  The swap file is stored on he area that Windows stores it is called
the swap file or the swap partition You can change the location and size of the
swap file  
 

=== Quick format vs. full format Quick format vs. full format—These are two ways
of formatting a partition. Quick format only changes the file system records, so
the disk appears empty. Full format also rewrites the previous files, making it
harder to restore previous files, and may detect some surface errors on the
disk.  Other Considerations

Here are some other considerations to keep in mind when installing and
configuring the operating system.

Quick format vs. full format

A quick format removes all files on the volume without scanning the drive for
problems. A full format removes all files and also scans the disk for bad
sectors. The full format option is preferred for system installs in order to
ensure your disk is in good condition.

Quick Format vs Full Format Formatting is the process of setting up a new file
system on a partition.  When you format a disk, all the data is erased. 
 
A hard drive is divided into sectors.  Typically, the size of a sector is 4KB.
A 1TB hard disk could have 250,000 sectors.  Some sectors might get damaged and
can’t reliability store data.  They should be excluded from the system. 
 
A Quick Format erases all the data and sets up the file allocation tables and
data structures. 
 
A Full Format erases all the data and sets up the file allocation tables and
data structures.  A Full Format also scans the hard disk for bad sector




== Load alternate third-party drivers when necessary Alternate Third-Party
Drivers

Drivers used in Windows installations that have been tested and approved by
Microsoft are referred to as signed drivers. When installing device drivers,
signed drivers should always be used; however, you may find situations where the
driver is an unsigned driver (third-party driver). Before installing an unsigned
driver, verify the source to ensure that it is valid.

Load alternate third party drivers when necessary

When installing hardware, sometimes Windows’ built-in drivers may only partially
activate the device. This is particularly prevalent with multifunction
printers/scanners/faxes and duplexers. When you encounter this situation, go to
the manufacturer’s website for the device drivers, as opposed to a page with
drivers for many devices and manufacturers.

Other OS Install Considerations • Load alternate third-party drivers when
necessary o During installation of an operating system, Windows will attempt to
detect the hardware (mouse, keyboard, graphics card, NIC, etc.) and install the
drivers.   o This doesn’t really apply to Mac’s because the hardware and
software are part of the same package o Windows won’t have drivers for some
newer SSDs (must copy these drivers to the installation media prior to
installing Windows) o Your company may use specific drivers for their hardware
(basic print driver for example) or proprietary drivers for specific items • 

== Workgroup vs. Domain setup Workgroup vs. Domain Setup

You will need to know how to set up a workgroup and set up a system as part of a
domain. A workgroup could be a small department in a larger organization, or
more likely a home user. Setting up a home workgroup is an easy way to allow
printer sharing and file sharing with family. Businesses would more than likely
use a domain controller that would provide secure, centralized logins to a very
large group. This centralized facility simplifies managing a large network.

Workgroup vs. Domain setup

The main decision you will need to make regarding Workgroups and Domains is the
following, will this be a home network or business? Next, determine the size,
scale, and if you will have the skills or personnel to handle administrative
tasks.

Workgroup vs. Domain setup  o Does the office use a workgroup or a domain?  o If
the office uses a domain, you must join the computer to the domain.  o You must
use an account that has permission to join the computer to the domain (typically
an admin account) • 


== Time/date/region/language settings Time/Date/Region/Language Settings

During the installation of the operating system, some regional settings can be
changed. These include local time and time zone, region, and language. Most of
these settings can be changed later, after the installation, but not all
operating systems will allow changing the interface language without
reinstalling.

Time/date/region/language settings

This is always one of the first setup questions to answer in order to localize
the machine.

Time/date/region/language settings  o Set the correct date, time, region, and
language o The date and time can be updated automatically • 


== Driver installation, software, and Windows updates Driver Installation,
Software, and Windows Updates

Understand the importance of keeping your system up to date, specifically
relating to security. Know the procedures for installing drivers, using 32-bit
drivers on x86 systems and 64-bit drivers on x64 systems. Be familiar with the
function of the Device Manager and how it relates to drivers.

Windows Updates are performed by running the Check for updates utility. These
updates will frequently cover other installed Microsoft software, like Office,
and development tools. Other software updates need to be checked for and
installed separately. Windows updates can be configured to run automatically.

Driver installation, software and windows updates

Immediately after an installation, check the device manager for any issues.
Install any Windows updates that are available. Depending on the age of your
installation software, there may be 40 or so to deal with. Lastly, check the
operation of your software, especially if you performed an in-place upgrade.

Driver installation, software, and Windows updates  o Windows will automatically
check for updates after installation o Some software programs will also check
for updates • 


== Factory recovery partition Factory Recovery Partition

For computers that come with a recovery partition, you are expected to know how
to use this to implement a system recovery. Also understand how partitions can
be hidden.

Factory recovery partition

If you are using a new machine for the first time, make sure your recovery
partition is present and accessible. Get the media ready and create your
recovery disks.

Factory recovery partition  o The factory partition contains recovery files for
the operating system, which you can revert back to • 


== Properly formatted boot drive with the correct partitions/format Boot Drive

For each operating system, understand the procedure for partitioning and
formatting drives. Know how to determine which partition is the active
partition.

Properly formatted boot drive with the correct partitions/format

Access the Disk management console and review the installed drive(s). Validate
the partition data against your expectations. Also, review any unallocated space
and determine if you need to use it.

Properly formatted boot drive with the correct partitions/format  o If you’re
installing Windows from a USB key, the key should be bootable (contains a boot
record) • 

== Prerequisites/hardware compatibility Hardware Compatibility

Ensure that the system’s hardware is supported to install and configure the
desired operating system. The essential BIOS, CPU, and RAM need to support the
installation. The hardware should have supported drivers to be used optimally by
the OS.


Prerequisites/hardware compatibility

All current Windows versions are covered in your objectives. The minimum
hardware requirements are shown below: Hardware 	32-Bit Windows 	64-Bit
Windows 	Other Support Processor   	1 GHz or faster 	1 GHz or
faster 	Windows 8/10 requires support for NX, PAE , and SSE2 Memory (RAM)
1 GB 	2 GB 	 Free hard drive space 	16 GB 	20 GB 	 Video device and driver
DirectX 9 device with WDDM 1.0 or higher driver 	DirectX 9 device with
WDDM 1.0 or higher driver	DirectX 9 device with WDDM 1.0 or higher driver 	     

Prerequisites/hardware compatibility  o Make sure that your computer has
adequate and compatible hardware for the operating system that you’re installing
• 

== Application compatibility Application Compatibility

Between 32-bit and 64-bit, and also the versions of operating systems, verify
that the desired applications are compatible and will run successfully.
Understand the compatibility mode.

Application compatibility

During an upgrade situation, you may need to update programs. Use Windows
Compatibility Mode to run programs that only operate in earlier Windows versions
or use the Compatibility Mode Troubleshooter. Access the Properties of the
program you are trying to run and you will see a Compatibility tab. The
Troubleshooter is contained in there along with the ability to manually select
the compatibility mode to a specific OS version, such as Windows 95.  

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Application compatibility  ust check to make sure that applications will
function with the operating system that 

== OS compatibility/upgrade path OS Compatibility

To upgrade the OS version, there must be an upgrade path. When a new OS is
released, there is a lot of effort put in to allow upgrades from previous
versions. There may be some limitations that won’t allow an upgrade. For
instance. a 32-bit OS can’t be upgraded to 64-bit. There are cases of
fundamental feature changes; for instance, a new version may not support the
file system used by the previous operating system. In these cases, only a clean
install would allow you to use the newer operating system instead of the old
one.



OS compatibility/upgrade path

Provided they are all the same bit version, you can generally upgrade Windows 7
to Windows 8 through 10 on compliant systems without any issues. That’s all for
now. Nice work. Make the best of it and Good Luck on the Exam! 

ompatibility/upgrade path 



