= 2.1 Compare and contrast TCP and UDP ports, protocols, and their purposes.

== Ports and Protocols
Ports, Protocols, and Purposes

For this exam, you should know the following TCP/UDP port numbers, the protocols
that run over those ports, and the primary use for each.
Ports and Protocols

Port numbers are used to distinguish different protocols and services that run
over a network.

Port Numbers and Protocols


We will list the related ports and protocols as defined by the A+ objectives.

What is a Port and Protocol? 
 
Protocol 
• 
Formal standard/policy for two or more network-enabled devices to communicate
with each 
other 
• 
May include a set of commands that the two parties/devices can issue to each
other 
• 
All devices using the protocol understand each other 
• 
For example, HTTP (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol) allows a web server to share
website data 
with a web browser.  
o The web browser understands HTTP and knows which commands it should issue to 
the web server 
o The web server understands HTTP and understands the commands received from the 
web browser.  It understands what the commands mean and responds appropriately 
to deliver website data to the browser. 
 
Port 
• 
A network device/computer server may receive data from multiple network sources

• 
The device may have several applications operating on it, each of which offers a
different 
service (for example e-mail server, web server, DNS server) 
• 
An application that offers a service will listen on/bind to a port or set of
ports 
• 
The operating system will forward traffic to the correct application based on
the port that it is 
listening on 
• 
Port numbers range from 1 to 65535 
• 
The port number is appended to the IP address 
• 
For example, HTTP (website) traffic is typically sent/received on Port 80 
• 
If a web server has an IP address of 192.168.0.1, and the port is 80, then the
full address is 
192.168.0.1:80 
• 
The web server software listens on port 80 
• 
Traffic that is received on port 80 is forwarded to the web server.  Traffic
received on other 
ports is forwarded to other applications 
• 
Many of the lower number ports (1 to 500) are reserved for specific
applications, but an 

=== 21 - FTP
21 – FTP—File Transfer Protocol; used to transfer files to and from a server

21 – FTP

The File Transfer Protocol (FTP) is used in a client/server configuration to
transfer files. FTP can operate in active or passive mode and uses TCP to
control the connection. In active mode, the connection is initiated by the
client and informs the server about which port it intends to use to receive
data. In active mode (although port 21 is used for command and control), the
data will be sent out on port 20 which serves as the FTP server’s data port.
Passive mode is used in situations where inbound client TCP connections are not
possible. Firewalls generally block inbound connections by default. In this
case, the client sends a PASV command to the server and the server determines
which client port can be used for the transfer.

File Transfer Protocol 
Used to transfer large files over a network 
 
=== 22 - SSH
22 – SSH—Secure Shell; used to access remote devices with added encryption

22 – SSH

Secure Shell (SSH) opens a secure network channel over an unsecured network
using public key cryptography, providing confidentiality and integrity for
network services. This makes SSH a cryptographic network protocol. SSH is used
to secure remote network logins and other confidential data. Passwords cannot be
intercepted because the encryption is established before the login is required.

22/SSH 
Secure Shell 
Used to communicate securely with a server, 
especially UNIX servers.  Can provide remote 
control of a server. 
 


=== 23 - Telnet
23 – Telnet—used to access remote devices with no encryption

23 – TELNET

Developed in the late 60’s, Telnet was designed to support remote logins and
communication between computers during what was a “kinder and gentler” time for
networks. Telnet provides a functional command prompt on the remote host.
However, these communication channels are in plaintext making them subject to
interception. This is not acceptable for today’s networks and the internet.
Since Telnet does not encrypt data, SSH has generally replaced Telnet for these
connections.

23/Telnet 
Telnet 
Like SSH, but does not contain any security 
Older protocol that is no longer popular due to 
lack of security 
 


=== 25 - SMTP
25 – SMTP—Simple Mail Transfer Protocol; used for sending email

25 – SMTP

The Simple Mail Transport Protocol (SMTP) uses TCP port 25 for internet mail
transmission. SMTP is an internet standard protocol. Due to the proliferation of
SPAM and other email related vulnerabilities, other ports can be used for SMTP,
most notably port 587. A secure, nonstandard implementation of this protocol is
SMTPS. SMTPS is quite effective because it is one of the protocols that can
utilize SSL. SMTP is responsible for the transmission of email between servers
and for sending email from a client. Other protocols are used by the client to
receive email.

25/SMTP 
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol 
Used to communicate with an e-mail server (for 
sending e-mail only) 
Can be secure or insecure, depending on 
whether client encrypts data 
 


=== 53 - DNS
53 – DNS—Domain Name System; translates domain names to IP addresse

53 – DNS

The Domain Name System (DNS) is mostly known for its function of translating
friendly domain name URLs such as www.mysite.com into its actual IP address
which are much more difficult for humans to remember (think IPv6!).

DNS uses the two protocols TCP and UDP on port 53. DNS servers update themselves
by maintaining a list of known host-to-address translations in a distributed
database while also receiving and adding unknown or moved domains. This supports
the hierarchical nature of domain naming of domains and sub-domains. Each domain
has a designated authoritative name server that manages the domains and
sub-domains. The name server also communicates that information to the
database.

53/DNS 
Domain Name Server 
Translates Domain Names/Hostnames to IP 
addresses (necessary to locate network 
resource) 
 

=== 80 - HTTP
80 – HTTP—Hypertext Transfer Protocol; standard for communication on the web,
used to render pages in web browsers

80 – HTTP

Web Browsers use the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) for internet
communications. HTTP can be considered the foundation of the World Wide Web.
HTTP uses the client/server method where a client uses a Uniform Resource
Locator (URL) to locate and request information from the target server of the
resource. The response is more often than not an HTML page.

A typical URL begins with http:// (or increasingly https://) followed by the
Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) of the desired resource. URLs to websites can
be distributed between parties using clickable links called hyperlinks, named in
reference to the hypertext communication being used. HTTP uses TCP/UDP port 80
and sends unencrypted data by default. This is inherently un-secure.

80/HTTP 
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol 
Used to transmit web site data (insecure) 
 


=== 110 - POP3
110 – POP3—Post Office Protocol 3; used for receiving email

110 – POP3

Receiving email is done over several different protocols. There are two main
protocols available depending on your service. The first is Post Office Protocol
(POP) with the latest version being POP3. This protocol uses port 110 by default
and is responsible for the management of messages on the server (saving and
deleting). Deleting the message after delivery is the default mode. Leaving
messages on the server is useful if you use multiple devices for messaging.


=== 143 - IMAP
143 – IMAP—Internet Message Access Protocol; used for receiving email.

143 – IMAP

Today’s email user is probably using email over a collection of devices
including Tablets, Smartphones, and Laptops. If your smartphone downloads and
deletes a work-related email (POP3 default), you will have a problem when you
check email on your PC or laptop. The Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) on
TCP port 143 solves this problem by leaving the messages on the server
regardless of the delivery status. Every device that checks the server will get
the email. This is great unless you get spammed a lot. If 18 out of 20 emails
are junk, your server space will fill up quite quickly. This calls for closer
scrutiny of the undeleted messages on your server. You have to move spam emails
to the trash folder and purge it or configure the client to purge trash. Despite
this, IMAP is the preferred client messaging protocol.


=== 443 - HTTPS
443 – HTTPS—Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol; secured communication on the
web

443/HTTPS 
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol-Secure 
Used to transmit web site data (secure) 




=== 3389 - RDP
3389 – RDP—Remote Desktop Protocol; used to connect to remote computers

3389 – RDP

This is for the old timers that used Telnet and then Terminal Services. From
Windows XP onward, the Remote Desktop Connection (RDC) was available. Using the
Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) on TCP/UDP port 3389, RDC is able to bring a fully
functional remote machine’s desktop and its programs to your device. This
requires that the client and server software be configured on Microsoft products
but versions of Remote Desktop are available for most OS’s.

Remote Desktop Protocol 
Allows you to remotely connect to a Windows 
server or computer via a Graphical User 
Interface 
 
=== 137-139 - NetBIOS/NetBT
137-139 – NetBIOS/NetBT—Network Basic Input Output System; used for LAN
communication

137-139 NetBIOS/NetBT

Server Message Block (SMB) predates Active Directory and was the foundation of
Microsoft’s Windows for Workgroups networking capability. Based on NetBIOS, SMB
can run on UDP ports 137 and 138, and TCP ports 137 and 139 as NetBIOS over
TCP/IP (NetBT).

137-139/NetBIOS/NetBT 
NetBIOS/NetBT 
Allows computers to communicate with each 
other over a network 
Provides name services (provides each 
computer with a unique hostname), and 
communications 
 


=== 445 - SMB/CIFS
445 – SMB/CIFS—Server Message Block/Common Internet File System; used for shared
access on a network

445 – SMB/CIFS

Server Message Block (SMB) runs directly on TCP port 445. While being one of the
oldest networking protocols, it has been continuously improved. The 3.0 version
implemented with Windows 8 (3.02 in 8.1) supports improved performance in
virtualized data centers. It is pervasive in many network applications and
embedded devices. However, newer versions support end-to-end AES encryption. The
Windows 10 version of SMB, version 3.1.1, requires secure negotiation when
connecting to earlier versions. You may also see this service named as Common
Internet File System (CIFS) or Samba depending on the operating system.

445/SMB/CIFS 
Server Message Block/Common Internet File 
System 
Allows computers on a network to share files 
and printers 
 


=== 427 - SLP
427 – SLP—Service Location Protocol; used for local service discovery

427 – SLP

SLP was designed to help networks grow from small networks to large enterprise
networks. Operating on port 427 the (Service Location Protocol), SLP allows
clients to locate servers and services on the network.

427/SLP 
Service Location Protocol 
Allows computers to find services on a local 
network 
A device will broadcast a URL containing the 
location of a service over SLP 
Other devices can connect to the URL over SLP 
to use the service 
 


=== 548 - AFP
548 – AFP—Apple Filing Protocol; used for Apple file services

548 – AFP

Apple File Protocol (AFP) version 3.0 and higher use TCP/IP ports 548 or 427 to
support the proprietary Apple sharing protocol. This protocol uses URLs with the
structure afp//server/path. At the time of this writing, AFP is migrating to
SMB. This is probably not covered in the scope of the objectives.

548/AFP 
Apple Filing Protocol 
Allows Apple devices to share files 
 


=== 67/68 - DHCP
67/68 – DHCP—Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol; used to assign IP addresses to
network hosts

67-68 – DHCP

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) has saved years of man hours and
countless misconfigurations. As the most common IPv4 or IPv6 TCP/IP addressing
method, DHCP is responsible for complete client configuration on a TCP/IP
network. On a work network, there is usually an assigned DHCP server.
Residential or SOHO implementations use the router provided by the ISP to
perform this function. DHCP assigns or leases a unique IP address to each host.
The duration of the lease is determined by the network administrator or is
weekly by default. DHCP will also define the internet gateway and Domain Name
Server to be used. This means that your machine may not get the same IP address
when rebooted or otherwise disconnected. However, the DNS and Gateway settings
will remain.

The DHCP server has an available pool of IP addresses available to assign to
clients (hosts) that attempt to connect to the network. The client broadcasts a
UDP discovery packet for an address to all connected networks. All DHCP servers
will offer an address to the client. The client will then accept the offer from
the nearest server by requesting a lease. That server will lease that address to
the client. The address assignment process is identical for both IPv4 and IPv6
addressing. For the sake of consistency, the ports used are UDP 67 for the
server and UDP 68 for the client.

67/68/DHCP 
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol 
Allows a device to request a dynamic IP from a 
DHCP server 
Allows a DHCP server to dynamically assign IP 



=== 389 - LDAP
389 – LDAP—Lightweight Directory Access Protocol; used to access a directory on
network objects

389 – LDAP

Think of the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) as a phonebook for
network services. The protocol serves to maintain and provide access to a
distributed directory of the users, applications, available network services,
and systems throughout an IP network.

Based on the x.500 standard’s directory, services using the Directory Access
Protocol (DAP), which relied on the 7 layer OSI model, LDAP uses only a portion
of the x.500 standard set and uses the newer and more relevant four layer
Internet protocol suite on port TCP/UDP 389 at the application layer. By
containing all the required network information, including users and their
credentials, LDAP servers can be used to quickly validate user access. LDAP can
precisely fulfill specific and detailed responses to queries about the network.
The more details specified in the request, the more concise the response. In
addition to its own Distinguished Name (DN) object identification, LDAP can ask
DNS servers to locate other LDAP servers.

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol 
Allows users to access different directories 
Directories include e-mail directories, users, 
phone numbers, printers, and services 
 
=== 161/162 - SNMP
161/162 – SNMP—Simple Network Management Protocol; used to send and receive
network management messages

161-162– SNMP

As one of the more popular network management protocols, Simple Network
Management Protocol (SNMP) is used to monitor and configure network nodes such
as printers, hosts, routers, and servers on TCP/UDP ports 161 and 162 using a
network manager. SNMP agent software is used on the nodes to enable monitoring.


161/162/SNMP 
Simple Network Management Protocol 
Allows a user to collect and manage data about 
managed network devices, including routers, 



== TCP vs. UDP

TCP vs. UDP

Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a connection-oriented protocol used to
send and receive data over a network. Before data is sent, a connection is
established with the receiving host. It is considered a reliable protocol
because the receiving host acknowledges that it received the data. TCP is used
in cases where receiving the proper data is more important than speed.

User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is a connectionless protocol. Data is sent without
any assurance that the receiving host is actually receiving the data. For that
reason, it is considered an unreliable protocol. The advantage of UDP over TCP
is that it is faster.

In the objectives, TCP vs. UDP is listed last. This topic should really be
listed before protocols and ports in order to best help you understand what to
expect when you use a particular protocol in terms of performance and
reliability. That is why this review is starting with the last item on the list:
TCP vs. UDP.
TCP vs. UDP

TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) is a protocol that rides on top of the IP
protocol (Internet Protocol) and is designed to address the reliability issues
of IP, which is inherently unreliable. This is the main reason why you see the
TCP/IP protocol suite referenced as a single protocol in internet
communication.

TCP is responsible for the connection and the continuity necessary for reliable
communication on any network, most notably the Internet. TCP opens a reliable
“socket” on each end of the transmission throughout the entire communication. To
effectively do this, TCP needs to know the IP addresses and ports of both the
client and the server. This action is known as connection-oriented and can be
viewed much like a traditional telephone call consisting of the following
actions: pickup, dial, connect, chat and hang up. This is why Port/Protocol
information is significant.

With the connection sockets established, TCP becomes responsible for breaking
the data into packets of up to 64K, however the lower level protocols that use
TCP have much lower maximum packet sizes such as 1500K for Ethernet. TCP breaks
the data down to the necessary size and adds its header. TCP is also responsible
for delivery, meaning that all failed packets are retransmitted and that the
  packets arrive intact in the correct sequence. Most importantly each packet
  receipt is acknowledged, referred to as ACK. If it isn’t acknowledged, the
  packet will be retransmitted. In the end, all data is delivered to the correct
  host in sequence and complete.

UDP (User Datagram Protocol) is an unreliable, connectionless delivery system
for communication that also rides on top of IP. The difference with UDP is that
  the packets are all individual and are all handled separately. This negates
  the flow control and other checks and balances offered by TCP. This means no
  solid connection, no inter-packet relationship like in the case of TCP where a
  packet will say “I’m the 7th packet of 90” to the system. This also means no
  error control and no acknowledgment of packet receipt let alone dropped or
  lost packets. The sender has no information as to whether their communication
  was received or not.

So why use UDP? UDP is fast due to the lack of ACK. UDP data streams
continuously to the destination, regardless if the receiver is ready or not. TCP
sends, waits for the ACK, then sends more. This could add a substantial amount
of time to large transmissions.

Difference Between TCP and UDP 
An application will send data to another computer (for example, a web server
needs to send a 
website to a visitor).  The application is not concerned with the details of how
the data is sent or 
received.  TCP/UDP handles the transmission details. 
 
TCP 
• 
Transmission Control Protocol 
• 
TCP 
o The sender and recipient establish a “connection” 
o The sender breaks the data up into “packets”.   
o Each packet is numbered.  
o The packets are sent over the network or internet. 
o During transmission some packets might get lost.  These are known as “dropped

packets”.  The packets won’t necessarily arrive in the order that they were
sent. 
o Errors are okay, because 
 
The recipient receives the packets and puts them in the correct order 
 
The recipient acknowledges receipt of each packet 
 
The recipient requests that the sender resend missing packets 
• 
Most internet traffic is TCP (FTP, HTTP, etc.) 
• 
TCP is slower but reduces data loss.  When data integrity is important, TCP is
better.  For 
example, if we download an Excel spreadsheet, we can wait a few seconds/minutes
for the file 
to download, but missing part of an Excel spreadsheet would be unacceptable,
therefore FTP 
is TCP. 
UDP 
• 
User Datagram Protocol 
• 
UDP 
o Just like TCP, except that 
 
No connection is created 
 
Packets aren’t numbered (they won’t necessarily arrive in the correct order) 
 
The recipient does not acknowledge receipt of any packets.  Lost packets are 
not resent. 
• 
Used in Voice Over IP systems, online games, etc. 
• 
UDP requires a better-quality connection to perform reliably 
• UDP is faster but risks data loss.  For example, in a phone conversation, we
need to hear what 
the other person is saying in real time.  We don’t have time to break up the
conversation and 
reassemble it.  It is a reasonable trade-off if we miss a few seconds of the
conversation. 

A series of moving vans
• Efficiently move large amounts of data
  • Use a shipping truck
• The network topology is the road
  • Ethernet, DSL, cable system
• The truck is the Internet Protocol (IP)
  • We’ve designed the roads for this truck
• The boxes hold your data
  • Boxes of TCP and UDP
• Inside the boxes are more things
  • Application information
TCP and UDP
• Transported inside of IP
  • Encapsulated by the IP protocol
• Two ways to move data from place to place
  • Different features for different applications
• OSI Layer 4
  • The transport layer
• Multiplexing
  • Use many different applications at the same time
  • TCP and UDP
TCP - Transmission Control Protocol
• Connection-oriented
  • A formal connection setup and close
• “Reliable” delivery
  • Recovery from errors
  • Can manage out-of-order messages or retransmissions
• Flow control
  • The receive can manage how much data is sent
UDP – User Datagram Protocol
• Connectionless
  • No formal open or close to the connection
• “Unreliable” delivery
  • No error recovery
  • No reordering of data or retransmissions
• No flow control
  • Sender determines the amount of data transmitted
Speedy delivery
• The IP delivery truck delivers from one (IP) address to another (IP) address
  • Every house has an address, every computer has an IP address
• Boxes arrive at the house / IP address
  • Where do the boxes go?
  • Each box has a room name
• Port is written on the outside of the box
  • Drop the box into the right room
Lots of ports
  • IPv4 sockets - Server IP address, protocol, server application port number
  • Client IP address, protocol, client port number
• Non-ephemeral ports – permanent port numbers
  • Ports 0 through 1,023
  • Usually on a server or service
• Ephemeral ports – temporary port numbers
  • Ports 1,024 through 65,535
  • Determined in real-time by the client
Port numbers
• TCP and UDP ports can be any number between 0 and 65,535
• Most servers (services) use non-ephemeral (not-temporary) port numbers
  • This isn’t always the case
  • It’s just a number.
• Port numbers are for communication, not security
• Service port numbers need to be “well known”
• TCP port numbers aren’t the same as UDP port numbers

