---
title: 2.2-Explain-logical-security-concepts
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-57
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 2.2-Explain-logical-security-concepts
= 2.2 – Explain logical security concepts.
== Active Directory
=== Login script
=== Domain
=== Group Policy/Updates
=== Organizational Units
=== Home Folder
=== Folder redirection
== Software tokens
== MDM policies
== Port security
== MAC address filtering
== Certificates
== Antivirus/Anti-malware
== Firewalls
== User authentication/strong passwords
== Multifactor authentication
== Directory permissions
== VPN
== DLP
== Access control lists
== Smart card
== Email filtering
== Trusted/untrusted software sources
== Principle of least privilege


Logical Security Measures

Unlike physical security controls that you can see and touch, logical security controls are items such as security policies and software safeguards that are used to protect our systems. You should be able to explain these.
Active Directory

Active Directory (AD) is the Microsoft® directory used to manage users, applications, computers, and much more. AD can be used to help implement security measures across your organization.
Login Script

A login script can be thought of as a series of instructions given for a device to perform upon login. Login scripts can be set on the profile tab of a user in AD. Login scripts can be used to map network drives, log computer access, gather information from a computer, and much more.
Domain

Ensuring that all computers in an environment are in your domain helps to ensure that they will be given the proper security policies. When a computer is in your domain, you’ll be able to see it and manage it within AD.
Group Policy/Updates

Group policies can be extremely useful in securing an organization. Group policies can be used to set password policies, block unwanted applications, and even block access to the Internet entirely in some cases. They can also be used to push out security updates, which are important to keep an organization safe.
Organizational Units

Organization units (often referred to as OUs) are subdivisions of your domain within active directory. For example, if the organization ACME Corp had three separate locations, they may choose to have three organizational units within their domain.
Home Folder

A home folder can be set for each user in AD. If the home folder doesn’t exist when it’s added in AD, then AD will create the folder and set the permissions for you. By default, this folder can be accessed only by the user and the domain administrators. Home folders should be used by folders to store their files on the server. Because computers can be lost or stolen, it’s best for users to store their documents on the server in this way rather than store them locally on their own machines.
Folder Redirection

Folder redirection allows administrators (and in some cases users) to redirect the path of a specific folder to a new location. One popular implementation of this is to redirect a user’s Documents folder (that is stored locally on his or her machine) to a network location, such as the Home folder.
Other Methods

There are other methods to ensure security. Here are some of them.
Software Tokens

Software tokens are similar to hardware tokens, except they come in the form of either a piece of software on your laptop or an app on your mobile device.
MDM Policies

Mobile device management (MDM) policies are used to enforce security measures on mobile devices such as cell phones and tablets. Many organizations require that their users access email or other business related apps on their phone, but this can present security risks to the organization. MDM policies can help offset some of the risk. An example of an MDM policy would be an organization requiring anyone accessing business email or business apps to have a lock screen on their phone with a PIN.
Port Security

To prevent unauthorized devices from forwarding traffic, port security should be used. There are a number of different options when implementing port security. For example, you can define the maximum number of MAC addresses that can be used on the port.
MAC Address Filtering

MAC address filtering, or simply MAC filtering, is a method in which only devices with specific MAC addresses are able to send data on the network. If a device tries to connect to a network and it doesn’t have one of the agreed up on MAC addresses, it will not be permitted to join the network.
Certificates

Digital certificates help users know when they are accessing a trusted website. Digital certificates are signed by a trusted certificate authority (CA). The CA can ensure that the public key you are getting from a website is actually from the web server and not an attacker.
Antivirus/Anti-malware

Users should never be allowed to browse the Internet without an antivirus/anti-malware program. While it’s important to note that antivirus and anti-malware programs are not able to prevent all malware, they do prevent a large number of attacks.
Firewalls

Firewalls should be used by organizations as a first layer of defense for their networks. Firewalls come in many different types including packet filtering firewalls, proxy firewalls, and stateful inspection firewalls. At the most basic level, firewalls allow for the creation of rules, known as access control lists, which specify the types of packets that are allowed and disallowed. Firewalls come as both hardware and software devices. They can be standalone or part of another network device such as a router or a switch.
User Authentication

User authentication is the cornerstone of any organization’s security. Physical security and firewalls won’t help you if a user’s password is Password123. Security policies that enforce users to choose strong passwords should be created. Many organizations now require users to choose passwords that are at least 12 characters and contain both symbols, numbers, and multi-case letters.
Multifactor Authentication

Even the strongest passwords can be compromised. This is where multi-factor authentication comes in. Multi-factor authentication (commonly referred to simply as MFA) requires two or more different authentication types. Authentication types are typically broken down into categories such as something you know (password, PIN, security question), something you have (authenticator, token), and something you are (biometrics). Because MFA requires two or more different types of authentication, a user would not be able to use just a PIN and a password, since they both fall into the category of something you know. Rather, the user would need a combination such as a password and a token.
Directory Permissions

Not all users within an organization should be given access to all data that the organization has stored. For example, a customer service representative will most likely not require the same level of access as the Chief Information Security Office (CISO). In order to restrict users from accessing data they should not see, directory permissions should be used. Directory permissions allow administrators to control what level of access a user should be given on a per directory level. Some of the permission types include full control, modify, and read.
VPN

Virtual private networks (VPNs) are extremely useful for organizations that allow users to work remotely and also multi-location organization. For organizations where employees work remotely, it can be set up so that a user is able to connect securely to the organization’s network via a client VPN. For organizations that have multiple locations, site-to-site VPN tunnels can be configured to expand the network across all of these locations.
DLP

Data loss prevention (DLP) is the practice of preventing unauthorized data from leaving an organization. Sensitive data can be leaked either intentionally or unintentionally. Regardless of the cause, the ramifications can be severe. DLP methods can’t prevent data loss entirely, but they are used to reduce the chances of data leakage wherever possible. .
Access Control Lists

Access control lists are used to specify which traffic should be allowed through a firewall and which traffic should be blocked. Using access control lists, traffic can be blocked or allowed based upon a number of items including source or destination port as well as source or destination IP address.
Smart Card

Smart cards are typically the size of your driver’s license or credit card. The embedded memory and chipset in these cards can store identification and authentication information. Smart cards can also be programmed to use as a cash card that is seen in many organizations where employees may use their employee badge to purchase lunch in an onsite cafeteria.
Email Filtering

Spam is a common way to spread malware. Even when spam doesn’t contain malicious links and attachments, it still clutters up user inboxes, making them less productive. Organizations can reduce the amount of spam received by implementing an email filter. Email filters can review messages both inbound and outbound. In some cases, email filtering can also check outgoing email messages for sensitive data, therefore helping with DLP.
Trusted and Untrusted Software Sources

Because end users may not be as well-versed in what programs are legitimate and which are not, software installations should always be reviewed by an administrator. A user may believe they are downloading a trusted program, but it could turn out to be malware. By disallowing user installations and requiring administrator approval, this scenario is less likely to occur.
Principle of Least Privilege

Permissions should only be given to a user if they absolutely need them to complete their job. This idea is known as the principle of least privilege. The fewer users who have access to sensitive files, the less likelihood that something will happen to those files.


Active Directory

Active Directory (AD) describes a collection of services and related databases in Windows Server that can be used to control access to permitted Domains and activities.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

AD is used to manage a Windows Domain using five services:

Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) authenticates user accounts and provides authorization for user activity in the Domain.

Active Directory Certificate Services (AD CS) securely manages the identities of computers, users, and services.

Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) is used with outside organizations to secure trust relationships.

Active Directory Rights Management Services (AD RMS) provides data security.

Active Directory Lightweight Directory Services (AD LDS) provides application security.

These services work together in order to organize the AD hierarchal structure from the top down. Active Directory creates a forest consisting of all the resources of a particular entity, such as a company or school, organized at the highest level.

Domain

The forest resources are organized into a domain such as mycompany.com or myschool.edu. The domain can contain one or more sites. A single site is usually sufficient, however sites can be created for each office location or campus.

Organizational Units

An organizational unit (OU) simplifies user and computer management, allowing technicians and administrators to make privilege assignments to the users and computers in the OU using Group Policy Objects (GPOs). An OU can contain user groups, allowing many users to have a specific set of privileges. A user can belong to as many user groups as needed.

Group Policy/Updates

Domain resources are controlled by the group policies that are applied to the OU. Privileges are assigned to users and computers. NTFS and share permissions can also be applied using group policies. When a GPO is modified, the update is automatically applied to all clients.

Login script/Logon script

Whenever a user logs on, a list of commands is executed. The commands are contained in logon script files. Logon scripts can be simple batch files or VBScript files. AD stores Logon scripts in the Netlogon network share.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Home Folder

By default, a user saves their files locally to their home folder C:\Users\username\Documents folder. Active Directory can change the location of the home folder to a network share, allowing the user to access the folder from any workstation they’re logged on to. This process is called folder redirection.

Folder Redirection

Active Directory can change the Home folder location to a share on the network, referred to as folder redirection. This simplifies backup maintenance and provides user access from different computers.
Software Tokens

Software tokens are a software generated security component used for authentication. Devices are synchronized with the server and the required information between the server and device is identical. Software tokens can serve as one factor during a multifactor authentication process.
MDM policies BYOD vs. corporate owned

Falling under the umbrella of Mobile device management (MDM), the term BYOD (Bring your Own Device) describes a corporate policy that allows an employee to use their own device in the corporate environment. MDM includes evaluation of the device by the company’s IT department in order to ensure the device meets corporate security requirements regarding software, patches, antimalware, firewall, VPN, login requirements, and encryption. Any software installations required for the device to meet MDM/BYOD policy are referred to as on-boarding. Corporate owned devices are configured to meet these same requirements.
Port security

Port security is used on switches in order to control which connected devices can communicate with each other.
MAC address filtering

MAC address filtering takes port security to the next level by using the device’s MAC address in order to permit (whitelist) or deny (blacklist) connections.
Certificates

Digital certificates are used to authenticate users and web servers. Digital certificates are issued by a trusted third party, referred to as a Certification Authority (CA). The most common example of a CA occurs when a secure website is accessed and a padlock icon displays in the address bar, indicating that the site is secure. The certificate details can be viewed to validate the Certification Authority and the encryption. Users can create their own certificates in order to provide email recipients with their credentials.
Antivirus/Antimalware

Antivirus/Antimalware is a crucial component of computer protection. Often, both products will be rolled into one. In order to maintain the programs’ effectiveness, the antimalware and antivirus signatures must be updated frequently. Protection programs examine all traffic and compare the behavior and contents of files against those of known threats. If a match or suspicious file is discovered, the program will issue a warning and the file will be quarantined until a determination is made. Remember not to judge a file by its name alone. Trojans use the names of legitimate files. Leave the quarantined file alone and look for a replacement on a trustworthy site.
Firewalls

Fundamentally, there are two types of firewalls: hardware and software. In order to protect business and small networks against attack, hardware firewalls are often placed between the Internet and the network being protected, filtering the traffic that is allowed to pass onto the network. A software firewall is important too, not as a standalone solution but as an additional filter for the traffic coming in and out of the machine. A hardware firewall only inspects inbound traffic while a software firewall can inspect both inbound and outbound traffic. Hardware and software firewalls complement each other and even in the case of a SOHO, a hardware firewall will be incorporated into a broadband router. Software firewalls are often a part of the OS, for example, Windows Firewall on Microsoft OSes. These software firewalls are designed to interoperate with antivirus or antimalware packages. The software firewall is more easily configurable by the end-user should they find their normal activity blocked.
User authentication/strong passwords

In a business environment, user authentication is required in order to access computer systems. A strong password is recommended. The password should be long, 16 or more characters, and use upper and lower case characters, numbers, and symbols. In the screenshot below, a strong password “K5wp#bLjp6B2G7-y” is provided by a random password generator. The generator also offers an easy way to remember this cryptic password with the phrase “KOREAN 5 walmart park # bestbuy LAPTOP jack park 6 BESTBUY 2 GOLF 7 – yelp.” Good luck with that!

Strong password generator
Multifactor Authentication

A strong password combined with a second form of authentication, such as biometrics, badge, or token, is referred to as Multifactor authentication. A very common multifactor method consists of a numeric keypad with an embedded fingerprint scanner. Other Multifactor authentication methods are as simple as a security badge combined with a passcode. An imposter may be able to obtain one factor, however, it is unlikely that the impostor will obtain both.
Directory permissions

Directory permissions relate to the permissions allowed to a particular login or user. Unless specifically allowed, the hierarchy will explicitly deny permissions. Usually a user is a member of a group and will be given shared group permissions. If a user inherits a deny permission from the group but is explicitly allowed permission, the user will be allowed access.
VPN

A Virtual Private Network (VPN) offers a way to communicate securely over an insecure network (e.g. the Internet). The VPN is hosted by the business and creates a secure encrypted tunnel between remote users and the private network.
DLP

Data Loss Prevention (DLP) is less about physically losing data and more about user activities that can compromise data security. Operations such as sending email or moving files are scrutinized by DLP programs and even devices. Sensitive data is pre-classified to allow for categorization. Sometimes referred to as Data in Motion, DLP checks these activities for sensitive material.
Disabling ports

When malicious activity is detected, the firewall has the ability to disable ports and protocols in order to stop the spread of malware.
Access control lists

Access Control Lists (ACLs) hold and manage a database of users and groups that are granted access to files and folders. Group membership helps manage this process. Keep in mind that a particular user may belong to one or more groups. In this case if permissions are not specifically set, access will be denied to the user. When multiple settings are listed, the user will be granted the lowest level of access specified in the groups.
Smartcard

See objective 2.1.
Email filtering

Email filtering is used by organizations to spot malicious or unapproved traffic coming in and out of the network. Email filtering can also be configured by the end-user for email clients and incoming email services in order to reduce spam and block unwanted senders.
Trusted/untrusted software sources

When you are looking for a new program for your PC or mobile device, it is imperative that you think before you click. Always take steps to ensure that you are using a trusted source. Trusted sites include but are not limited to the device manufacturer, the software vendor (not “dump” sites), and your operating system’s update site. In most cases, this will be the iOS App Store, Google Play and the Windows Store. You will recognize a trusted site first by its familiar appearance, then the graphics (must be crisp), and the correct terminology (proper grammar).

First, carefully examine the graphics on the page for clarity as they well never look fuzzy or copied-pasted on a trusted website. Next, check the text for grammatical errors. Then examine the URL for accuracy as it should be readily identifiable. Software is the vehicle for most malware and in most cases, Malware can be surrounded around files that the user thinks is legitimate. Malicious programming can be hidden inside a legitimate file making it hard to detect.

These attacks can replace the contents of a file or simply rename a malicious file with something that appears trustworthy and as a result, will be executed. The defenses are multiple. For example, email and antivirus scanners will look for specified text strings or symbols within the file in order to determine the presence of malware. If the programming and disguise are clever enough, an infected program from an untrusted source can be unknowingly installed. Be vigilant.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002
Principle of least privilege

With regards to access privileges on a network, less is better. This is where the Principle of Least Privilege (PoLP) comes in. The PoLP increases security by reducing the user’s privileges to only those necessary for their duties. This blocks ordinary users from installing software and from performing any other actions that are not permitted due to their job description. Privileges can be elevated when necessary, with temporary elevation lasting only for the duration of the specified activity. That’s all for 2.2! We hope you found it informative. Good luck on the test.
