= 2.3 – Compare and contrast wireless security protocols and authentication methods.
== Protocols and Encryption
=== WEP
=== WPA
=== WPA2
=== TKIP
=== AES
== Authentication
=== Single-factor
=== Multifactor
=== RADIUS
=== TACACS

Wireless Protocols and Authentication

Wireless networks are inherently less secure than wired networks. However, there are several methods that can be used to secure wireless networks.
Protocols and Encryption

WEP— Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) was one of the first attempts at securing wireless networks. WEP should not be used today because it contains a flaw that makes it very vulnerable to attackers.

WPA—Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) is a more secure option than WEP, as it used TKIP.

WPA2— Wi-Fi Protected Access 2 (WPA) improved upon WPA by using the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES). WPA2 is the standard that should be used today for securing wireless networks.

TKIP— The Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP) provides a new encryption key for every sent packet. TKIP helped improve WPA and make it more secure than WEP, but it was found that TKIP also has its own vulnerabilities.

AES— AES, which stands for Advanced Encryption Standard, is a secure encryption method that is still used today. WPA2 uses AES in order to secure wireless networks.
Authentication

Wireless networks should never be left open, and they should always require some form of authentication. Let’s look at a few wireless authentication methods.

Single-factor— Single-authentication requires that the user only provide one form of authentication. It’s common to see wireless networks that only require a pre-shared key to join the network. This is an example of single-factor authentication, and it is considered to be a weak authentication method.

Multi-factor— Multi-factor authentication requires a user to provide more than one authentication type as discussed earlier in this study guide. A common implementation of multi-factor relating to wireless authentication is the Extensible Authentication Protocol-Transport Layer Security (EAP-TLS), which requires the user to not only have a password but also a certificate installed on the computer.

RADIUS— Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) is an authentication method used to allow for centralized authentication and accounting. Although it gets its name from the days of dial-up Internet, RADIUS is now the common method used to authenticate over VPNs and wireless networks.

TACACS— TACACS and TACACS+ were originally developed by Cisco®, but were released as an open standard. These protocols are used for the authentication of users on network devices such as routers and switches.




Protocols and encryption

Wireless signals are un-secure by their very nature. Wireless signals can be intercepted and read by any third party. Packets can be grabbed out of thin air without requiring to be logged on to the network. Unencrypted Wi-Fi sessions are the physical equivalent of someone sitting beside you observing while you read and type. Even the weakest encryption is better than none. It’s important to understand that the encryption process consumes resources on the devices and the transmission itself, referred to as overhead.
Screenshot of VPN Encryption
Example of VPN Encryption

In this edition, we will look at the encryption protocols covered in the objectives as well as how they can be used together in order to create hardened communications that are less likely to be decoded. Wireless encryption is configured on the router used to access the Internet. All wirelessly connected devices use the same encryption method as they won’t understand the connection process. Encryption uses a unique key that is variable in length and subject to frequent changes, in order to keep them secure. Here are the various encryption protocols.

WEP

Wired Equivalent Protocol (WEP) was considered the “go to” encryption method in the early days of wireless networking as it offered the equivalent security of a hard-wired connection. WEP is now considered less than secure due to the sophistication of wireless eavesdropping and the fact that the key is static and never changes, making it easily shareable.

WPA

Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) encryption offers constantly changing keys with a stronger encryption method. WPA was the best encryption protocol at the time and is considered an upgrade for WEP. Also called the Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP), WPA generates changing keys and is used in conjunction with other encryption protocols in order to harden them as you will see.

WPA2

Wi-Fi Protected Access 2 (WPA2) is the best protection method available at the time of this writing and is based on the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), the Government standard for encryption of classified communication and documentation. In order to display the Wi-Fi logo, WPA2 (AES) support is mandatory. WPA2 is often used with a Pre-Shared Key (PSK) which is generally the router passphrase.

TKIP

The replacement for WEP, the Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP) generates frequently changing authentication keys which add an additional layer of security.

AES

All wireless devices manufactured since 2006 must support Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) in order to be allowed to use the Wi-Fi logo. AES improves the method used by TKIP in order to generate encryption keys.

When setting up a wireless “n” router, it is important to know the devices that will be accessing it. For example, setting a router to WPA (TKIP) mode for backward compatibility to 802.11b/g/n will slow the router down dramatically.

To summarize: The strongest and fastest encryption you can use is WPA2 (AES).
Authentication

Single-factor

There are several ways that users can be authenticated on the system. The simplest method is single-factor authentication which is widely used and can be as simple as a password or PIN. Other single-factor authentication methods are one-time passwords (OTP) that use random codes generated by a synchronized key fob or mobile device. ID badges are also used in single-factor authentication.

Multifactor

Multifactor authentication requires two or more independent authentication methods. In multifactor authentication, any two or more of the following can be used together as needed: ID Badge, Password/PIN, OTP, or biometric data. An example of multifactor authentication is a fingerprint and a PIN. The greater the need for increased security, the more authentication methods that should be used.

RADIUS

Remote Access Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) provides centralized Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting (AAA) management for users connecting to network resources and services.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

TACACS

Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System (TACACS) is a group of protocols for handling remote authentication and services through a centralized server. You may find that the objectives refer to TACACS as TACACS+ which is a newer version and supports AAA services. However, TACAS and TACAS+ are separate protocols. This completes the coverage for objective 2.3! Good luck on the test!
