---
title: 2.8-Given-a-scenario,-use-appropriate-networking-tools
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-57
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 2.8-Given-a-scenario,-use-appropriate-networking-tools
= 2.8 Given a scenario, use appropriate networking tools.



Networking Tools (scenario)

For this exam, you should be able to evaluate a set of network requirements in a
given scenario and select the best network tool for the job.


== Crimper
Crimper

A crimper is used to connect a connector to a cable. It is not usually practical
to use cables of a fixed length. It is also easier to run cable without the
connectors on it. So, cable is run and cut to the desired length and then the
connector is crimped on using a crimper. There are different types of crimpers
for Ethernet, coaxial, and fiber optic cables.

Crimper

CAT 5 and CAT 6 cable use the same crimping tool. Be sure to match the cable
ends against each other and the wiring standards. Your typical crimper will be
able to do all RJ cable terminations.

Crimper

Used to crimp an RJ-45 or RJ-11 connector (male
end) onto the end of a cable
Used to terminate an ethernet cable to a male
end (for connecting to an AP or camera or for
creating a patch cable)
I personally find male ends unreliable and
recommend that you terminate a cable with a
female end and then insert a patch cord
 
 
 
== Cable stripper
Cable Stripper

Cable strippers are used to remove the insulation from the end of a cable before the connector is crimped onto it.

Cable stripper

Most cable types require some to all of the protective coatings to be removed before it can be terminated. Coaxial cable is a good example of this since the outer sheath needs to be cut away, exposing the mesh shielding, before the protection for the core removed. Each cut must be at a predetermined depth and sequence.

Coax stripper tool

Cable Stripper
Allows you to strip the outer jacket of the cable
so that you can crimp or punch it down
Cable strippers are available for ethernet,
coaxial, or fiber cable
 
 

== Multimeter
Multimeter

A multimeter is a tool to measure voltage, current, and resistance at a minimum
and sometimes has other features.

Multimeter

Multimeters can be analog or digital. Analog meters are designed to test
continuity, positive AC, and negative voltages as well as resistance. The
display typically consists of a needle over a gradient background, with the
needle resting on the value currently being measured. The delicate internal
windings can be damaged on an analog Multimeter from extreme under-voltage or
over-voltage. Digital Multimeters address this problem by auto-ranging
themselves into the volt/amp range that would provide relevant output.
Otherwise, digital Multimeters would display an error message.

Multimeters

 
Multimeter
A multimeter allows you to detect voltage,
current, resistance, or continuity on a cable or


== Tone generator and probe
Tone Generator and Probe

These devices are used to locate cables in a wiring closet. The tone generator
is typically placed at the user end, and a probe is waved around in the wiring
closet to locate the connection. It will make a distinctive noise when it is
near the correct cable.

Tone generator & probe

Using a tone generator and probe, cables can be traced and followed end-to-end.
One device is useless without the other. During operation, one wire has a tone
applied to it at a frequency readable by the probe. If an audible signal is
produced at the opposite end of the test cable, you have the right cable.

Toner probe

Also known as a “fox and hound”
Allows you to find the other end of a phone line
or ethernet cable
You connect the tone generator to one end of
the cable
Use the probe to look for the other cable
When the probe rings, you will know that you’re
close to the cable
 
 
 
== Cable tester
Cable Tester

This device is used to certify that the cable meets the standards of the wiring
code used and ensure it can be used for communication. It will identify broken
wires or missing pin connections.

Cable tester

An indispensable tool for network diagnostics, the cable tester can diagnose
wiring problems from broken and cut cables to loose wires and crossed pairs.
Less expensive than a network Multimeter, this tester is often all you need to
fix a connectivity issue. Place the Master on one end of the suspect cable and
the Remote on the other end. The light display will show each wire sequentially.
Any sequence problems can be usually be attributed to a crossover cable in the
line. Find the problem and replace with T-568A or T-568B depending on the
installation.

Cable tester


== Loopback plug
Loopback Plug

This tool is a special cable that is wired to transmit and receive on a single
connector. There are loopback plugs for different types of connectors like USB
or Ethernet for testing network interface cards (NICs).

Loopback Plug

A loopback plug can be used to test any port on a PC, router, or switch.
Currently, the loopback plug is most commonly used to test the operation of a
physical network interface card port. The device typically uses software to send
and receive data, thereby validating or invalidating the port.

Loopback plug

Patch Panel

Patch panel wiring closets represent some of the most challenging situations for
a network technician. Every cable, going to every wall jack in the area,
terminates here. In some cases, you will only need to connect an RJ-45 jack to a
numbered port. For others, you will have to run 8 wires to their correct
locations on the patch panel. Here is an example:

Patch panel

Loopback Plug
Allows you to test continuity on a cable (internet
connection)
Takes the signal being received from the ISP
and sends it back (loops it back)
A Loopback plug can be copper or fiber
The plug connects pairs of the cable together
 

== Punchdown tool
Punchdown Tool

Cabling within a building usually goes through patch panels or punch down blocks
that serve as a central location, often in a room called a wiring closet, for
all cabling. A punchdown tool is used to connect the cables to the patch panel
or punch down block.

Punchdown tool

In the image above, each individual wire must be solidly placed into position.
This is where the punchdown tool comes into play.

Punchdown tool

The punchdown tool is designed with a recoil-like mechanism that firmly punches
the wire into position and trims off excess wire. One click and you’re done.

Allows you to insert wires from an ethernet
cable into a jack, patch panel, or phone block
The tool contains a blade
The most common blade shapes are 110, 66,
BIX, and Krone
 
 
 
== WiFi analyzer
WiFi Analyzer

A WiFi analyzer is used to design, optimize, or troubleshoot a WiFi network.
This device is used to show strong and weak spots in wireless coverage. It is a
way to visualize WiFi network coverage.



WiFi Analyzer

WiFi Analyzers are used to discover WiFi problems, but more importantly are used
to help optimize the performance of the WiFi network. They range from the
simplest “How many bars are you getting?” test to multicolor spectrum analysis
of the wireless environment. This tool is a useful diagnostic!

WiFi Analyzers are available for free from your wireless provider’s site and
will run on your smartphone. Keep in mind that wireless signals are measured in
dBm and are always expressed as a negative value. For example, a -25 dBm signal
is stronger than a -90 dBm signal. Use this device to avoid channel overlap.

Wi-Fi analyser
Allows you to identify if the Wi-Fi is adequate or
Can generate a heatmap of the Wi-Fi signal in a
building
Wi-Fi analyser can be a physical device or a
software program installed on a computer
Programs include InSSIDer, Air Magnet, and

