---
title: 3.11-Given-a-scenario,-install-and-maintain-various-print-technologies
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-57
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 3.11-Given-a-scenario,-install-and-maintain-various-print-technologies
= 3.11 Given a scenario, install and maintain various print technologies.


Other Print Technologies (scenario)

There is a variety of print technologies such as laser, inkjet, thermal, impact,
and 3D printers. There are also virtual print options to print to a text, PDF,
XPS, or image file. You need to be able to install and maintain each of these
print technologies for any given scenario.


> Laser Replace toner, apply maintenance kit, perform calibration, clean.

> Thermal Replace paper, clean heating element, remove debris.

> Impact Replace ribbon, replace print head, replace paper.

> Inkjet Clean heads, replace cartridges, perform calibration, clear jams.

Now it’s time to cover one of the most important and exciting topics yet!
Printers!! Before we get too deep into it, we will diffuse a potentially
volatile topic that will not be appearing on your tests.

We will break down the printers by type and then for each type, we will describe
the components and troubleshoot various printer problems, tracing them back to
the component that is responsible.


== Laser Laser

Laser printers create high quality printouts using a complex process. The
component that actually “draws” the image is a laser. It works with other
components to transfer that image to the paper.

Laser Printers

HP Laserjet Printer

Laser printers basically have two main areas of concern:

    The printer, i.e. everything that is not the toner cartridge.  The toner
    cartridge

Laser unit dell visible

Understanding the printing process step-by-step is your best path to success in
this area. All steps are occurring so fast that they appear to happen almost
simultaneously. We will look at each step, where it fits in the process, and how
it relates to other processes.

The cartridge contains all (or most) of the components needed to create the
image and to prepare it for transfer to the page.

Cartridge: This is the main replaceable item in a Laser printer. The cartridge
contains the drum, toner hopper, agitator blade, wiper blade, and the shutter.
Ever since the replaceable cartridge was introduced to laser printing,
maintenance and support needs of these printers has been significantly reduced.

HP Cartridge

The ink cartridge, the drum, and toner, contains everything that could be
considered a consumable or wear item.

HP Drum & Toner

This includes the transfer belt, transfer roller, pickup rollers, separator
pads, and duplexing assembly.

Click here for our A+ Exam Simulator for exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Laser printing is a photo-electric process.

Charging: The imaging drum has a very high negative voltage (-600V) applied to
it by a roller or a wire depending on the age.

Exposing: In this stage, the laser writes the image onto the drum, increasing
the voltage of the exposed areas from approximately -600V to -100V.

Laser Exposing

Developing: The toner is applied to the drum by applying a light charge,
attracting the toner to the highly charged drum.

Fusing: The fusing assembly provides both friction and heat to the paper as it
passes through, melting the toner onto the paper.

HP Fuser Kit

Cleaning: The drum is cleaned so that a new page can be printed. This process
utilizes the erase lamps which are a part of the printer lid and are often
covered with red film. Exposing the drum to this light erases the drum
completely. The scraper blade also removes any remnants, leaving a completely
clean drum ready for a new page to print.

HP Cleaner Kit

Example of preventative maintenance on an HP LaserJet:

As part of your periodic maintenance duties, you will be assigned one or two
printers to perform preventative maintenance. You have been asked to perform
preventative maintenance on an HP LaserJet.

Maintenance Kit

First, use the model number to look up the maintenance schedule for your
unit(s). After looking it up, you see the printer needs new rollers, vacuuming,
and toner cartridge replacement. In your toolkit, you have a Datavac/2 Pro
Series Toner Vac because it meets HP’s stringent requirements, along with many
other manufacturers. New printer parts are approved when they pass the
manufacturer’s requirements and are guaranteed to fit.

Datavac-2 Pro Series Toner Vac

An additional part that is becoming more popular in new printers is the transfer
belt or roller. This is used to move documents through multicolor laser printers
and scanners. Having the right tools and documentation are crucial aspects when
working on this.


=== Imaging drum, fuser assembly, transfer belt, transfer roller, pickup
rollers, separate pads, duplexing assembly
** Imaging drum, fuser assembly, transfer belt, transfer roller, pickup rollers,
   separate pads, duplexing assembly**—

    Imaging drum: The laser “draws” the page image onto the imaging drum.  Fuser
    assembly: The fuser assembly applies pressure and heat to bond the toner to
    the paper.  Transfer belt: Used in color laser printers, the transfer belt
    transfers the page image from the imaging drum to the paper.  Transfer
    roller: Used in black-and-white laser printers, the transfer roller
    transfers the page image from the imaging drum to the paper.  Pickup
    rollers: Rubber pickup rollers feed paper from the paper tray through the
    printer.  Separate pads: To ensure that only one page is fed at a time,
    separate pads separate the page begin fed from the pages underneath it.
    Duplexing assembly: To print on both sides of the paper, the duplexing
    assembly will flip the paper over.


=== Imaging process: processing, charging, exposing, developing, transferring,
fusing, and cleaning
** Imaging process: processing, charging, exposing, developing, transferring,
   fusing, and cleaning**—

    Processing: Before any actual printing is done, the image of the full page
    in placed into memory.  Charging: A high negative charge is applied to the
    imaging drum.  Exposing: The laser “draws” the image of the page onto the
    imaging drum by exposing it to the laser light. The tightly focused laser
    light removes the negative charge from (neutralizes) the imaging drum,
    leaving the rest of the drum negatively charged.  Developing: The negatively
    charged toner is transferred to the imaging drum. Since the drum is also
    negatively charged, the toner will only stick to the areas that have been
    neutralized by the laser.  Transferring: The transfer roller or transfer
    belt transfers the toner from the drum to the paper.  Fusing: A fusing
    roller users heat and pressure to bond the toner to the paper.  Cleaning:
    Any residual toner is cleaned off of the imaging drum.


=== Maintenance: Replace toner, apply maintenance kit, calibrate, clean
Maintenance: Replace toner, apply maintenance kit, calibrate, clean— Laser
printers tend to be expensive, so regular maintenance must be done to keep them
running well for a long time. Manufacturers make this fairly easy for common
maintenance tasks like replacing toner. Other tasks require more knowledge and
skill.

    Replace toner: Toner is used for each print job, so it must periodically be
    replaced. Toner comes in a toner cartridge that is easily replaced by the
    user.  Apply maintenance kit: Printer manufacturers recommend replacing
    certain parts periodically. They provide these parts in maintenance kits.
    They may include the fuser assembly, transfer belt, transfer roller, pickup
    rollers, and/or separate pads.  Calibrate: Calibration is done to keep the
    page image sharp and accurate. This may be done on a periodic basis and when
    parts are replaced. Each printer will have its own calibration process.
    Clean: Toner is a fine powder that will leave residue in the printer.
    Keeping the inside of the printer clean will keep it running well and
    prevent loose toner from showing up on printouts.

Laser printer components/process High Voltage Power Supply Generates a high
voltage which applies a negative charge to the imaging drum
 
Maintenance: not required
 
Imaging Drum/Photoconductor Drum A laser strikes the drum and neutralizes areas
where toner should stick Toner sticks to the drum in the areas that were
neutralized by the laser
 
Maintenance: replace every 200,000 pages The developer roll is coated in toner,
which is received from the toner cartridge.
 
The developer roll applies toner to the imaging drum.
 
The toner doctor blade applies toner to the developer roll.
 
Maintenance: replace every 200,000 pages
 
Paper Tray Holds Paper
 
Maintenance: not required
 
Pickup Roller
 
 
 
While the drum is being charged, paper is pulled up into the printer The pickup
roller sits on top of the paper tray and picks up paper that is in the tray
 
Maintenance: replace every 200,000 pages Separation Pad Sits at the front of the
paper tray Separates the paper so that only one sheet of paper can exit at a
time
 
Maintenance: replace every 200,000 pages
 
Toner Cartridge Holds toner
 
Maintenance: replace when empty

Positions the paper against the imaging drum, forcing the toner sticks to the
paper At this point in the process, it is easy for the toner to fall off the
paper
 
Maintenance: replace every 200,000 pages
 
Fuser Assembly The toner-covered paper travels to the fuser The fuser uses high
heat to bind the toner to the paper  
 
Maintenance: replace every 200,000 pages; belts in the toner wear out
 
Cleaning Blade Cleans excess toner off the imaging drum, which is deposited into
a waste toner container (not all printers have a waste toner container)
 
Maintenance: not required
 
Duplexing Assembly Flips sheets of paper over so that the printer can

A color laser printer works the same as a black and white laser printer.  The
difference is that there are four toner cartridges (black, yellow, cyan, and
magenta).  There is a separate system for each color.  One color is applied to a
page at a time.  Therefore, the laser print process is repeated four times in a
color laser printer.  Each of the four systems must align perfectly, or colors
on the printed page won’t line up.  Maintenance procedure • Replace the toner
cartridge when empty • Empty or replace the waste toner bottle (if the printer
is equipped with one)
 
Clean the inside of the printer when dirty (use a dry cloth) • Print a
configuration page.  The page will list the most recent errors.  o Look up the
errors in the maintenance manual to determine what other actions to take.  •
Print a cleaning page.  The cleaning page will clean the inside of the printer.
• Replace the o Fuser o Separation Pad o Pick Up Roller o Transfer Roller o
Imaging drum, if necessary o Developer unit, if necessary o Other components as
determined by the manufacturer • Typically, the fuser, separation pad, pick up
rollers, and transfer roller are sold together as part of a maintenance kit.
They all tend to wear out at the same time.  The printer will keep track of the
number of pages printed, and when it reaches a certain level, it will register a
“maintenance” error.  Maintenance is typically required after 200,000 pages, but
this varies between printer makes and models.  • Check the maintenance manual
for instructions on how to replace each component.  o It is difficult to change
  parts in older printers.  Many steps are required, and many components must be
  removed.  o It is easy to replace parts in newer printers.  Many parts are
  held in by plastic tabs;

he wrong paper is used The correct paper is used but the printer rollers are
worn out (or the fuser is worn out) and need to be replaced
 
Print is faded Not enough toner is reaching the page • High voltage power supply
• Transfer roller
 
Dirty Print Clean the printer
 
Repeating defects on print Damage on one of the rollers Measure the distance
between the defects Compare the distance to the circumference of the rollers to
determine which roller is damaged

== Inkjet Inkjet

Inkjet printers create high-quality printouts, though the resolution can be less
than that of laser printers. They are also much less expensive. They create the
page image by spraying ink dots onto precise points on the paper. Several
components work together to transfer the page image to the paper.

Inkjet

Now to the bread and butter of SOHO printer implementations, we have InkJet
printers. These are inexpensive and an economical addition to your Small/Home
Office that will give your mailings, business cards, and pictures that extra
pop! You can use them to print decent letters too!

Whatever your design of choice, you will find inkjet printers that are available
in every price range and feature configuration. Inkjets are compatible with most
OS’s and connection types.

Ink cartridges are modular and can be replaced one at a time, reducing the
general maintenance cost. Each cartridge uses a heated nozzle to disperse
precise amounts of ink in order to produce the desired color or pattern. The
colored ink modules are driven back and forth on each line in order to produce
continuous, seamless, and high-resolution output. Many models use belt driven
ink delivery. These machines have evolved from cheap laser alternatives into
full-fledged, multifunction devices incorporating scanners, copiers, and fax
machines that can also act as standalone wireless devices. With the addition of
a duplexer, this modest little printer can play with the big boys!

Whenever you change a printer cartridge, the machine must be recalibrated. If
calibration is not performed, your print quality will suffer.

Holds ink A printer may have one or more ink cartridges
 
Print Head Holds the print cartridges The print head transfers ink from the
cartridge to the paper Print heads wear out and become clogged with ink They
must be cleaned when plugged and replaced when worn out
 
Roller Ejects paper from the printer
 
Feeder Feeds paper into the printer
 
Duplexing Assembly Flips the paper over so that the printer can print on the
other side Rare on inkjet printers
 
Belt The belt moves the print head from side to side

Inkjet Maintenance • It is necessary to calibrate the printer.  Calibration
forces the print head to line up with the edge of the paper correctly.  • Clean
the print head regularly • Replace the print head when it is worn • Replace the
ink cartridges when they are empty
 

=== Ink cartridge, print head, roller, feeder, duplexing assembly, carriage, and
belt
** Ink cartridge, print head, roller, feeder, duplexing assembly, carriage, and
   belt**—

    Ink cartridge: Ink is stored in ink cartridges that supply ink to the print
    heads. There may be a separate cartridge for each of the standard colors
    used — cyan, magenta, yellow, and black. Some inkjet printers use a combined
    color cartridge with cyan, magenta, yellow ink plus a black ink cartridge.
    Print head: The print head draws the ink from the cartridge and ejects it
    onto the paper. Some printers combine the ink cartridge and print head into
    a single unit.  Roller: Paper is fed through the printer by the roller.
    Feeder: Paper may be fed from either a simple paper tray or a feeder. Most
    feeders have adjustments to allow you to feed papers of varied sizes.
    Duplexing assembly: The duplexing assembly flips the paper over so that you
    can print on both sides. It is not found on all inkjet printers.  Carriage:
    The carriage holds the print heads and gets moved into position so the print
    heads can eject the ink onto the proper spot on the paper.  Belt: The belt
    moves the carriage into position so the print heads can eject the ink onto
    the proper spot on the paper.


=== Calibrate Calibrate—Calibration is done to keep the page image sharp and
accurate. This may be done on a periodic basis and when parts are replaced. The
printer should be calibrated whenever a print head or ink cartridge is replaced.
Each printer will have its own calibration process.


=== Maintenance: Clean heads, replace cartridges, calibrate, clear jams
Maintenance: Clean heads, replace cartridges, calibrate, clear jams—Inkjet
printers require minimal maintenance that is easily done using features
available using the printer’s menus or software. To determine if maintenance is
needed, test pages specifically designed to point out flaws can be printed from
the printer’s menus or software.

    Clean heads: Printer heads can get clogged over time. Cleaning the heads can
    be done by selecting a menu option or through the printer’s software. When
    initiated, the printer will run through a head cleaning process.  Replace
    cartridges: When the ink in a cartridge has been used up, the cartridge must
    be replaced. A calibration should be done after replacing a cartridge.
    Calibrate: Calibration is done to keep the page image sharp and accurate.
    This may be done on a periodic basis and when parts are replaced. The
    printer should be calibrated whenever a print head or ink cartridge is
    replaced. Each printer will have its own calibration process.  Clear jams:
    Paper may get jammed in the printer as it is fed through. It may be cleared
    manually by simply pulling it out. Some printers provide a way to run just
    the feeder, either manually by turning a wheel or by running the feed motor.


== Thermal Thermal

Thermal printers use chemically treated thermal paper that changes color when
heated. It is the heat, rather than ink, that transfers the image to the paper.
They are simple and inexpensive. Common uses are for receipts and shipping
labels. The image printed is sensitive to light and heat, so it will fade over
time.

Thermal After having paid for something at a cash register, have you ever looked
at your receipt and wondered why it looks funny and old-school and why there are
two? This is a thermal receipt and is one of the oldest cash accounting printing
technologies still in use.

Detects the position of the paper/media
 
Feed Assembly Feeds the paper into the heating element
 
Heating Element The heating element heats the paper, creating

Thermal Printer Maintenance • A thermal printer will print on special thermal
paper or thermal labels • The printer can automatically detect the end of the
label (where one label starts and another label ends) o It might require
automatic or manual calibration

=== Feed assembly, heating element Feed assembly, heating element—

    Feed assembly: The feed assembly feeds the thermal paper through the
    printer.  Heating element: The heating element heats specific areas of the
    thermal paper as it scrolls by. The heated areas darken to create the image.


=== Special thermal paper Special thermal paper—Thermal paper is chemically
treated paper that changes color when heated.


=== Maintenance: Replace paper, clean heating element, remove debris
Maintenance: Replace paper, clean heating element, remove debris—Maintaining
thermal printers is simpler than other types of printers. There are fewer moving
parts and no ink.

    Replace paper: Thermal paper comes in rolls of various sizes. Replacing the
    paper is a simple matter of removing the empty roll and inserting the new
    roll. There is a button or wheel that can be used to feed the paper into the
    printer after the new roll is inserted.  Clean heating element: The heating
    element should be cleaned periodically to ensure proper heat transfer to the
    paper. Isopropyl alcohol is typically used as the cleaning agent. Some
    printers come with a pen or pad to make it easier to access the heating
    element for cleaning.  Remove debris: Paper fragments and dust will
    accumulate in the printer over time. This debris should be removed as
    needed. A commonly used method is to blow out the debris with compressed
    air.


== Impact Impact

Impact printers use a matrix of pins to strike an ink ribbon to transfer ink to
the paper. The most common type is the dot-matrix printers. A unique feature of
impact printers as compared to other printers is that they can print multiple
copies simultaneously using carbonless or NCR (no carbon required) paper.

Impact Printing, or Dot Matrix, was developed concurrently with thermal. As
money became more valuable, the desire to pilfer even small amounts grew
quickly. With no tracking system, companies could literally be robbed out of
solvency by its own employees. Adding machines were created to generate a hard
copy of any tabulations and to generate a record of all transactions. The
current benefit of dot matrix is its ability to print out multiple copies of the
same document, known as carbon copies.

Dot Matrix technology uses a ribbon that is impregnated with ink and a set of
pins that fire independently, transferring a dot of ink on the paper at the
point of impact. This point of impact has sufficient force to activate the
carbon in a multi-page document so that duplicates can be generated in
real-time.[

Contains a bank of hammers The hammers strike the ribbon against the paper to
create an image The paper is pulled through the printer line-by- line
 
Ribbon Ribbon passes between the paper and the print

Impact Printer Maintenance • Replace the ribbon • Clean the print head • Replace
the print head (consult the manual)

=== Print head, ribbon, tractor feed
** Print head, ribbon, tractor feed**—

    Print head: The print head is a row or rectangular matrix of metal pins. The
    pins that strike the ink ribbon form the character to be printed.  Ribbon:
    The ribbon holds the ink that is transferred to the paper by the print head
    during printing.  Tractor feed: The tractor feed feeds the paper through the
    printer.


=== Impact paper
** Impact paper—Impact paper is simply paper made for impact printers. It may
   come on a **roll or as fanfold paper in single-ply, duplicate, or triplicate.
   Duplicate and triplicate paper transfers the image through to all copies
   simultaneously.


=== Maintenance: Replace ribbon, replace print head, replace paper Maintenance:
Replace ribbon, replace print head, replace paper—There is little maintenance
required on impact printers. In most printers, these items can all be replaced
by the user.

    Replace ribbon: Ribbon replacement is usually a simple task. The new ribbon
    should be taught, leaving no slack.  Replace print head: The pins in a print
    head can get bent or broken. So the print head will eventually need to be
    replaced. The print head does get hot due to the friction or rapidly moving
    parts, so care must be taken to ensure it cools down before touching it. It
    is held in by a lever that must be released to remove the old print head.
    Replace paper: Paper replacement requires a bit more effort than in other
    types of printers. The paper has holes along the side that are placed into
    the tractor feed. These must be aligned so that the paper feeds properly.
    Also, since the paper is continuous, as opposed to separate sheets, the top
    of the page must be lined up properly.


== Virtual Virtual

A virtual printer is a printer drive that creates a file rather than a paper
copy. The file can take the form of a printer file (PRN), portable document
format file (PDF), XML Paper Specification file (XPS), or image file.

Virtual

Every computer in the world has the opportunity to create a virtual counterpart.
For the 220-1001 3.11 sub objective, you are expected to know specifically that
you can use your Operating System (OS) tools to perform the following actions:

al Printing • When you print from a program, you are converting the document
into a format that the printer can read.  • Instead of printing to a printer,
you can print virtually o The most common file print is “PDF”.  Adobe Acrobat is
a program that generates PDFs.  When Acrobat is installed, it creates a PDF
printer driver.  You select “PDF” from the printer options.  Data for the
document to be printed goes to Adobe Acrobat, which generates a PDF document.  o
Printing to an XPS file.  An XPS file is like a PDF.  It is written in a
language called XML Paper Specification.  o Printing to an image.  Printing to
an image converts a document to an image.  Text inside an image file can’t be
edited.  o Printing to a file.  Choose this option to print the document to a
file.  The instructions that are normally sent to the printer are saved in a
file instead.  You can reuse those instructions later to reprint the document
without having to go through the original program.  This is useful when the
program takes a long time to generate the print.

=== Print to file Print to file—Print to file is an option in the Windows™ print
dialog. When a file is sent to a printer, the printer driver sends instructions
to the printer to control printer functions. The Windows™ print to file option
embeds the printer instructions you would select in the print dialog in a file
with a .prn extension. The .prn file can then be used to print to that model of
printer, even if the application that created the original file and the printer
driver are not available.

Print to file: The default output saved from Print-to-file is a .prn file. Check
the Print-to-file box in the Printer Properties applet.



=== Print to PDF Print to PDF—A Portable Document Format file stores an image of
a file that is identical to a printout of that file. This allows it to be shared
with other people or computers to be printed regardless of what operating system
and application created it.

Print to PDF: Check the Print-to-PDF box in the Printer Properties applet.


=== Print to XPS Print to XPS—An XML Paper Specification file is a Microsoft™
file format that, like PDF files, stores an image of a file that is identical to
a printout of that file. Microsoft™ provides an XPS Document Writer printer
driver to create XPS files. To view or print XPS files, Microsoft™ provides an
XPS Viewer.

Print to XPS: Checking this uses the built-in Microsoft printer.


=== Print to image Print to image—Operating systems and graphics applications
each have ways to save a file or screen capture to an image file. For example,
Windows™ 10 includes a Snipping Tool™ that captures a screen or portion of it
and save it as a PNG, GIF, JPEG, or HTML image file.  3D Printers

Print to image: Installing PDFill (a 3rd party program) will allow the Microsoft
printer to print directly to an image format such as PNG, PPG, BMP, TIF or GIF.



== 3D printers 3D printers create three-dimensional objects from a digital file.
3D printing is also known as additive manufacturing. The model represented in
the file is divided into horizontal cross-sections or slices. The bottom slice
is laid down using precisely positioned melted plastic. Then the next slice is
laid on top of it. This repeats until the full object is formed.


3D Printers

 Printing • A 3D printer will build a 3D object one layer at a time • It will
 deposit a layer of plastic and continue to build on top of it until all the
 layers are complete • There are several methods of printing in 3D and a wide
 variety of raw materials available, === Plastic filament Plastic filament—The
 plastic used for 3D printing comes in the form of plastic filament. The
 filament is fed from spools through a heated nozzle that melts and positions
 the plastic. It then cools to a solid to form the object.

Plastic filament

The prices for 3D printers, in addition to the materials used to print 3D
objects, are beginning to drop. Once costing tens of thousands of dollars, 3D
printers can now be purchased for a thousand dollars. Printing materials have
become more affordable, with materials such as plastic filament now costing
around twenty dollars or less. That’s cheaper than inkjet cartridges!

Looking at the 3D printing process, you’ll need good software to create your 3D
model and to transfer the digital model to the 3D printer. You can then print
the object in pretty much the same way as you would with a standard printer, but
not exactly.

Consider during standard 2D paper printing, a horizontal 1D stripe is deposited
line by line until your image or text is complete. Now with 3D printing, each
pass of the printer head creates fine layers of the chosen material, in our case
plastic filament, that stack vertically. This process is called Fused Filament
Fabrication (FFF) or Fused Deposition Modeling (FDM). Both of these processes
are additive, meaning that each print layer is added on top of the object until
the object is complete. Depending on the process, the filament can be melted
with UV light or heat.

