---
title: 3.6-Explain-the-purposes-and-uses-of-various-peripheral-types
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-56
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 3.6-Explain-the-purposes-and-uses-of-various-peripheral-types
= 3.6 Explain the purposes and uses of various peripheral types.


Peripherals

The PC uses several peripheral devices to interact with other hardware, like a
keyboard or mouse. You should understand the purpose and use of these
peripherals.


== Printer Printer

Printers provide hard copy (paper) output. All-in-one printers include other
functions such as fax, scanner, and copier. Printers may connect via WiFi, USB,
Ethernet, Bluetooth, or infrared connections. Operating systems have generic
printer drivers, but better printer control and features can usually be obtained
by loading the printer’s own drivers.

Printers

Printers create hard copies of the content displayed on your computer’s display.
This can be as simple as printing a note from your word processor. On the other
hand, you can also take a screenshot of your display for troubleshooting
purposes. There are several types of printers you are expected to know for the
test.

You will be expected to know these different types of printers and how they
operate.

Impact printers or Dot matrix use the impact method to create paper prints.

Inkjet distributes fluid ink on the paper by ejecting small amounts of colored
dye from small ink containers.

LaserJet uses the electromagnetic properties of the ink, the drum, and the fuser
to create the most stable output type. Moisture does not cause LaserJet prints
to distort unlike other types.

Printer Purpose Converts an electronic document into a paper document
 
Features There are many types of printers • Inkjet Printer (applies drops of ink
to the page).  • Laser Printer (can be black & white or color; applies toner to
a drum; the toner is applied to the paper and fused) • Solid Ink Printer (melts
blocks of solid ink; the melted ink is sprayed onto the paper) • Thermal Printer
(applies heat to a thermosensitive paper, which changes color; common for
receipt printers and label printers) • Impact printer (contains a ribbon; a bank
of hammers strike the ribbon to produce an ink impact on the page) • 3D Printer
(‘prints’ 3D objects using a plastic polymer or another chemical, which cures
and hardens)
 
Printing media • Typical printers accept paper of 8.5” x 11” dimensions.  •
Larger printers can accept paper of 11” x 17” dimensions.   • Plotter-type
printers can accept paper rolls, which can be up to 5’ wide • Printers can also
print on DVDs, t-shirts, A printer may be an “all-in-one” • Includes a scanner,
photocopier, and fax machine
 
A printer may have the ability to collate, staple, and hole-punch documents.
Size Printers range in size from small portable printers to large printing press
printers that can occupy an entire room
 
Cost Printer costs  • $100 to $500 for basic laser printers • $1000 to $5000 for
enterprise laser printers • $20,000 to $200,000 for high capacity printers •
$1,000 to $1,000,000 for 3D printers
 
Connectivity A printer will include one or more of the following interfaces •
USB • Ethernet • Wi-Fi • Bluetooth • Parallel (old) • Some printers have
connectors for memory cards and USB drives (they can read and print documents
off memory A printer may have the ability to connect via more than one interface
at a time.
 
Examples A Basic Laser Printer
 

== ADF/flatbed scanner ADF/Flatbed Scanner

A scanner creates a digital image of a paper document and stores it in an image
file or Portable Document Format (PDF) file. The original document can be input
using a flatbed or an automatic document feeder (ADF). Flatbed scanners provide
a glass bed onto which you place the document. This allows you to scan either
one-page documents or pages from a book. An ADF feeds paper, one sheet at a
time, from a stack of separate sheets of paper.

ADF/flatbed scanners

Multi-function devices combine useful technologies into a single device. You may
initially see an inkjet printer and on closer examination see that it is also a
flatbed scanner. The scanner may have automatic document feed (ADF) which allows
you to scan multiple documents and then either print them or save as a file on
the network.

Converts a paper document into an electronic document
 
Features A Flatbed scanner requires you to place the document face down.  It
will scan one page at a time.  • Good for scanning books, pages that are stapled
together, and other documents that can’t be separated
 
An Automatic Document Feeder allows you to insert multiple sheets.  It
automatically feeds the sheets through the scanner.  • Good for scanning loose
sheets with little effort
 
Can automatically save the document as an image or PDF.  Some scanners can
e-mail scanned documents.
 
A scanner may be part of a printer/all-in-one.
 
Scanners have different input sizes, including • 8.5” x 11” size • 11” x 17”
size • large format scanners for scanning blueprints
 
Size Range in size from portable scanners to large Price ranges from $100 for a
portable scanner to $10,000 for a large format scanner.
 
Connectivity A scanner will include one or more of the following interfaces •
USB • Ethernet • Wi-Fi • Bluetooth • Parallel (old) • Some scanners have
connectors for memory cards and USB drives (they can save documents to memory
cards and USB drives)
 
A scanner may have the ability to connect via more than one interface at a time.
== Barcode scanner/QR scanner

Barcode Scanner/QR Scanner

Barcode and quick response (QR) code scanners read barcode and QR codes, often
using the same application. Barcodes are usually used to represent a
machine-readable number, such as a product’s universal price code (UPC). QR
codes are most often used to represent a machine-readable link to a website that
provides more information.

Scanners and Barcode readers

Practically all products sold today have a barcode somewhere on their packaging.
The arrangement of the bars provides specific product information which is read
by the barcode reader and passed onto a cash register or other payment device.
This practice has been so successful that companies found that by changing its
format, they could add more information to the barcode such as web links to the
manufacturer’s web page. The QR (Quick Response) code was developed to satisfy
this need and is read by the consumer using their smartphone. It is not unusual
to see a shopper reading a QR code and comparing products using their phone.

Scans barcodes or QR codes
 
Features A barcode scanner can be handheld or fixed to a machine
 
A mobile device can be equipped with a barcode scanner
 
There are several different barcode styles that can be scanned
 
A barcode scanner receives power  • via USB, or • includes a battery, and can be
recharged by placing it into a docking station
 
Android-based “smartphone style” barcode scanners are becoming popular.  They
can run different applications and can retrieve and display data corresponding
to the barcodes that they scan.
 
Typical Barcode Style (contains only numeric Advanced Barcode Style (can contain
additional data)
 
 
 
QR Code (Can contain a substantial amount of data)
 
 
 
Size Small in size
 
Cost Cost between $100 and $1000
 
Connectivity A barcode reader will connect with one of the following interfaces
• Wi-Fi • Bluetooth == Monitors

Monitors, also called displays, allow users to see the video output of a
computer. They connect through various types of video output, such as HDMI, DVI,
or DisplayPort.


• Monitors

Not so long ago, computers used CRT monitors to display graphical output. CRTs
were bulky and heavy. A 22” CRT weighed over 50 pounds. LCD displays were first
used in laptops and proved to be suitable for desktops. LCD technology is able
to produce higher resolutions than CRTs and a 22” LCD can be carried with one
hand.

Displays video
 
Features Monitors range in size, quality, and features
 
Monitor technology • LCD monitors are most common (flat screen, but contains a
backlight) • LED monitors are becoming more popular (flat screen, without a
backlight; LED monitors can display colors better) • Older monitors are CRT
(poor video resolution)
 
Size • 15” to 17” monitors are less popular • 19” to 25” monitors are more
popular • Larger sizes (up to 80”) are available.  It is possible to connect a
television to a PC video output.  • Smaller sizes are available for industrial
equipment and appliances (e.g. control panels, refrigerators, etc.)
 
Resolution • 1080p • 2K • 4K • 8K
 
A monitor will have adjustments for the color, Additional features
 
• A monitor may contain USB ports, for user convenience.  The monitor has an
“output” USB cable, which connects to the PC.  • Some monitors have touchscreen
capabilities.  A touchscreen monitor will connect to the PC via USB.  • Curved
monitors.  Curved monitors are popular with gamers.  • Output.  A monitor may
have a video output, so that it can send video to another monitor.  Several
monitors can work together to display one large image or video.
 
Size Monitors range in size from 15” to 80”
 
Cost Cost depends on size and quality Monitors cost between $100 and $10,000
 
Connectivity A monitor will have one or more inputs • HDMI (most popular) •
DisplayPort (also popular) • DVI (less popular) • VGA (popular) Most monitors
will have a VGA port and an HDMI or DisplayPort port
 
A monitor will connect via USB if it contains USB ports.  A monitor will connect
via USB (or rarely by serial) it has touchscreen capabilities

== VR headset VR Headset

A Virtual Reality (VR) headset completely blocks the user’s view of his or her
actual surroundings and replaces it with what is on the screen in the headset.
The user can interact with the virtual reality they are viewing and hearing in a
number of ways with various input devices. Input devices range from simple
game-controller-type devices to sensor-embedded suits and multi-directional
treadmills. The most common use is currently gaming, but VR headsets are also
used for training, design, architecture, medical applications, and more.

Provides a virtual reality experience
 
Features Contains cameras and sensors that capture the user’s movement and where
his or her eyes are looking
 
Size Size of a football helmet
 
Cost Cost between $500 and $5000
 
Connectivity Connect via HDMI, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and/or USB A device may require
multiple connections.

== Optical Optical Drive Types

Optical drives are used to read CDs, DVDs, and Blu-ray discs. They are often
built into desktops and larger laptops. Slimmer laptops cannot accommodate an
optical drive, so they use peripheral optical drives. They are typically
connected via USB.

Optical

DVD-ROM / DVD-RW / DVD-RW DL

The same principles that apply to CD-ROMs apply to DVD-ROMs, DVD-RWs, and DVD
DLs. The capacity of the DVD disc increased to 4.7 GB. This is accomplished by
increasing the density of the pits and lands while still using a red laser. It
was discovered that the capacity of the DVD-ROM could be doubled to 8.5 GB by
using two layers of recordable dye. The laser can then focus on one layer at a
time. All of the DVD drives discussed will be either internal (PATA/SATA) or
external.

Allow you to read data from a CD, DVD, or Blu- Ray Disc Allow you to record data
to a CD-R, DVD-R, etc.
 
Features A drive may be a 3.5” wide drive that fits into a computer tower or may
be external (connects via USB).
 
Optical media is becoming less popular.  Increasingly, laptops are being
manufactured without optical drives.
 
Drives range in read/write speed
 
Some drives offer LightScribe (which allows you to etch an image into a
rewritable CD/DVD).  This feature has been discontinued by its manufacturer.
 
Size Typically, 3.5” wide
 
Cost Cost around $100
 
Connectivity Connects via SATA (internal drive) or USB

== DVD drive == Mouse Mouse

A mouse is an input device that provides point-and-click capability for
computers. Mouse devices connect to today’s computers via USB or Bluetooth.
Older computers used the PS/2 connector.

Allow you to interact with the computer by pointing and clicking
 
Features Typical mouse will have • Left button • Right button • Scroll wheel
(can scroll up and down; may also be able to scroll left and right, or click
with the scroll wheel)
 
Some mice have additional buttons, which can be programmed to perform specific
tasks.
 
Some mice have ergonomic features, which can reduce hand strain.  Features
include • Ergonomic shape • Rubber coating
 
At the bottom of the mouse is an optical sensor, which detects the direction and
speed of the mouse.  Older mice use rubber balls, which roll.
 
A mouse may be sold with a keyboard.
 
Size About 5” long
 
Cost Cost between $10 and $100
 
Connectivity Three primary ways to connect a mouse • Bluetooth • Wireless dongle
(a dongle connects to the computer via USB, and the mouse connects to the
dongle).  If you lose the dongle, you must purchase a new == Keyboard Keyboard

A keyboard is an input device used to enter alphanumeric characters and other
symbols into the computer. Keyboards connect to today’s computers via USB or
Bluetooth. Older computers used the PS/2 connector.

Keyboard/Mouse

We start out with the keyboard and mouse. Believe it or not, the first consumer
grade PCs did not have a mouse or even a graphical interface! Everything was
command line driven. Originally, mice were connected through the serial port.
They then upgraded to PS/2 and then ultimately to USB.

Keyboards followed roughly the same path. However, keyboards were originally
connected using an XT connector, a DIN connector that was twice the size of the
PS/2. Keyboard design evolved from an alpha numeric rectangular device, which
reportedly caused fatigue and nerve damage after extensive use, to a curvy
ergonomic design that was more natural. Newer keyboards and mice are wireless,
allowing for user mobility during gaming and home theatre aplications.

Click here for our A+ Exam Simulator for exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Allow you to interact with the computer by typing
 
Features Typical keyboard will have • Several keys (letters A to Z, numbers, and
special characters) • A number pad containing the numbers • Several function
keys that can perform special functions • Windows keyboards have a key with the
Windows logo, which launches the start menu • Keyboards are available in
multiple languages besides English • A keyboard may contain a backlight that
lights up the keys in a dark room.
 
Some keyboards have additional buttons, which can be programmed to perform
specific tasks.
 
Some keyboards have ergonomic features, which can reduce hand strain.  Features
include • Ergonomic shape • Rubber coating
 
At the bottom of the mouse is an optical sensor, which detects the direction and
speed of the mouse.  Older mice use rubber balls, which roll.
 
A mouse may be sold with a keyboard.  Cost between $10 and $100
 
Connectivity Three primary ways to connect a keyboard • USB • Bluetooth •
Wireless dongle (a dongle connects to the computer via USB, and the keyboard
connects to the dongle).  If you lose the dongle, you must purchase a new
keyboard.  If you purchase a keyboard and mouse as a set, they will come with ==
Touchpad Touchpad

A touchpad is an input device that provides point-and-click capabilities similar
to a mouse. It is built into laptops but also available as a peripheral device
that connects via USB or Bluetooth.

Touchpads & signature pads

How do we navigate through our operating systems without using a mouse? For 99%
of situations, the solution is the touch pad. We will look at a well-worn laptop
touchpad to illustrate how the device is used. Most of the action takes place at
the large top section of the touchpad. Here, your fingertip uses capacitance to
change the electrical properties of the touchpad, allowing you to navigate
around your desktop using the touchpad surface.

Touchpad

Notice how centered the wear pattern which indicates a well configured pad. Left
and right clicks are physical actions, requiring you to push down on the
buttons. This can be considered a form of biometric input because the electrical
properties of your fingertip create the connection point that influences the
motion. Biometrics are most often found in security enforcement situations where
an individual’s biological properties are used to identify them in a more
definitive way than with a token or passphrase.

Similar to a mouse; allows a user to interact with the screen by pointing and
clicking.
 
Features Touch sensitive pad Contains two or three buttons (left and right
click).  May have the ability to scroll, click, or zoom in/out by clicking on
the pad or using multiple fingers.  Advanced drawing pads contain multiple
levels of pressure sensitivity Can interact with the pad via a stylus
 
Size About 5” square
 
Cost Cost between $10 and $100
 
Connectivity Can connect via • USB • Bluetooth • ZIF connector (for laptops) ==
Signature pad Signature Pad

A signature pad is an input device that has a surface you can “write” on, but
rather than writing in ink, the pressure on the pad is detected, displayed on
the screen and/or stored in a file. It is used to capture a signature during a
transaction. It connects via USB.

Signature pad

Another type of touch sensitive device is the glass-in signature pad. The
signature pad, otherwise known as the digitizer, is composed of a three-piece
electronic sandwich where the glass is the top layer. By pressing on the top
layer with a stylus, you can electronically authorize a transaction with your
digital signature.

Signature pad

Allows a user to capture a signature Commonly used in banks and on point of sale
systems
 
Features Contains a stylus for allowing a user to sign.  May also accept
feedback from a finger.
 
The signature pad may include an LCD screen that can display the signature.
 
Signature pads can be integrated into smartphones, tablets, and credit card
machines.
 
Size About the size of a smartphone.
 
Cost Cost between $10 and $100
 
Connectivity Connect to PC via • USB • Serial cable
 
Examples Signature Pad with Screen == Game controllers Game Controllers

Game controllers are input devices that allow a user to interact with a video
game. It is available in the form of a gamepad, joystick, steering wheel, gun,
or anything to simulate whatever is used in the game.

Gaming

OK! Enough of the boring stuff. Let’s play a game! Let’s talk about a First
Person (that’s you) Shooter (what you have in your hand) (FPS). In an FPS game,
you walk around, shoot things, and collect items. To navigate and perform
actions, you will use your mouse and keyboard at the minimum. You may also need
a Game pad or a USB Joystick. Now let’s get some action.

The same first person shooter mentioned above can be moved into the virtual
environment. Virtual reality (VR) headsets provide an immersive visual
environment for gaming. Broadband internet allows multiplayer gaming and enables
players to communicate and form teams using headset microphones, ear buds, and
speakers. VR headsets are now being used for police and military training to
combine safety with immersive virtual reality environments.

VR headset

Joystick & Gamepad

Input to play games
 
Features Contains several buttons with different shapes and functions.  Buttons
can be programmed and may have different functions with different games.
 
May contain “force feedback”, which allows the controller to vibrate in response
to on-screen events.
 
Controllers may be shaped ergonomically to reduce hand strain.
 
Size Size of a smartphone or larger
 
Cost Between $50 and $1000
 
Connectivity Connects via • USB • USB (with a wireless dongle) • Bluetooth •
Proprietary Connector == Camera/webcam

Camera/Webcam

Cameras and webcams are input devices used to capture photos or videos. Webcams
are also used for interactive communications such as video conferencing. Webcams
may be built into devices or separate peripheral webcams are connected to the
computer when in use.

Digital cameras are used when disconnected from the computer to take photos and
videos that are stored as files in the camera. The camera can then be connected
to a computer, usually via USB, to transfer the files to the computer.

Useful peripherals

Broadband access, now available to most users, made long distance meetings
commonplace. In addition to your PC, all you need is a webcam and a microphone.
If you have a newer laptop or a tablet, the webcam and microphone are built in.
If not, your best bet is to get a USB webcam and microphone. Other items
designed to make your life easier is the digital camera. There’s probably one
built into your smartphone.

You can take the digital memory card in your camera and transfer your pictures
to your PC using a smart card reader. This is also true of movies you create
with a camcorder.

Allow you to input video for live video conferencing.  Allow you to record video
for later use.
 
Features Cameras are available in several resolutions, including 1080p and 4k.
 
A camera may also capture video.
 
Advanced cameras for video conferencing can detect motion and automatically
pan/tilt/zoom towards the person who is speaking.  These cameras are ideal for
large conference rooms.
 
It’s possible (although difficult) to connect a DSLR camera or camcorder to a
computer via a video capture card and HDMI port.
 
Size Small size
 
Cost Cost between $100 for a basic web cam and $2000 for a conference room
camera == Microphone Microphone

Microphones are audio input devices. They are used to record audio or for
interactive communications such as Internet phone calls or video conferencing.
Microphones may be built into a computer or connected as a peripheral via USB,
Bluetooth, or a tip/ring/sleeve (TSR) audio input jack.

 
Microphone Purpose Allow you to capture audio
 
Features Most laptops have integrated microphones, which have poor quality.
 
USB microphones can capture audio at a higher quality
 
A microphone can be integrated into a set of earphones or headphones
 
Some microphones can • Adjust the gain (the volume of the audio that is
captured) • Filter noise such as crackles, pops, and hisses • Adjust the range
of audio capture (from directly in front of the microphone to Small size
 
Cost Cost between $10 and $1000
 
Connectivity Connect via • Microphone jack (headphone jack) == Speakers Speakers

Speakers are audio output devices. They are used to play audio or for
interactive communications such as Internet phone calls or video conferencing.
Speakers may be built into a computer or connected as a peripheral via USB,
Bluetooth, or a tip/ring/sleeve (TSR) audio input jack.


Play audio
 
Features Computer speakers can be stereo (two speakers) or can offer a surround
sound experience such as Dolby 5.1 Surround Sound
 
Computer speakers may include a subwoofer (plays low sounds)
 
Speakers may have a volume control adjustment
 
Audio quality depends on the type of speakers
 
Larger speakers may require an external power source
 
Size Can be portable or large
 
Cost Cost between $10 and $1000
 
Connectivity Connect via • Speaker jack (headphone jack) == Headset Headset

A headset is a microphone and headphones combined in one unit. Like microphones
and speakers, they are used to play audio or for interactive communications such
as Internet phone calls or video conferencing. They connect via USB, Bluetooth,
or tip/ring/sleeve (TSR) audio jacks. There may be two audio jacks, one for the
microphone and another for the headphones, or it may be a single combined jack.

Can hear audio privately and can record audio or broadcast live audio
 
Features Audio and microphone quality vary between headset models
 
A headset may or may not include a microphone
 
May contain noise cancelling features to prevent you from hearing external
sounds
 
Size Small size
 
Cost Between $10 and $1000
 
Connectivity Connect via • Headphone jack • USB • Bluetooth
 
Examples Headset with Microphone == Projector Projector

A projector is a video output device that projects the video output onto a
screen or whatever you happen to point it at. It is most often used to do
presentations or to show photos or videos. The projector must put out bright
enough light so that the projected image is clearly visible.

How much brightness is needed is determined by distance and ambient light.
Brightness is measured in lumens (lm). The bulb in a projector will have a
specific lumen value.

Projectors connect to computers using the same types of connections as any other
display, such as HDMI, DVI, or USB.

• Projector

One display type you may encounter is the projector. Screen output is backlit
and projected onto a screen or even a clean white wall. This gives a great deal
of control over the size of the projected image.

Displays video on a wall or screen A projector functions like a monitor and can
have different resolutions, inputs, and features
 
A projector can display video on a wall, floor, or screen, but it is better to
display video on a dedicated screen.  Projector screens are designed to provide
optimal display quality.
 
A projector may use LED, LCD, or DLP technology.
 
A projector is rated based on the number of lumens that it can output.
Projectors with larger amounts of lumens are good for larger rooms and/or rooms
with high amounts of ambient light • A projector with 1500 lumens is good for a
small room • A projector with 4000 lumens is good for a conference room • A
projector with 30,000 lumens is good for an auditorium or for projecting onto
Resolution • 1080p • 2K • 4K • 8K A projector will have one or more inputs •
HDMI (most popular) • DisplayPort (also popular) • DVI (less popular) • VGA
(popular) Most projectors will have a VGA port and an HDMI or DisplayPort port
 
A projector will have adjustments for the color, contrast, and image location.
 
A projector will have additional adjustments for “keystone”, image position, and
focus.  Advanced projectors can “auto-focus” the image.
 
Size Projectors can be portable (small) or ceiling- mounted (large and heavy)
 
Cost Range in cost from $500 to $50,000 for advanced theater projectors
 
Connectivity Connects via • HDMI, DVI, VGA, etc. for video signal input •
Bluetooth • USB for control and possibly for video input (a portable projector
may only have one USB input for power, video, and control) • Ethernet for
network connectivity • Serial cable for external control === Lumens/brightness
Brightness and lumens

The brightness of a display is measured in lumens and is the measurement of the
candle power produced by an object. Let’s say lumens = brightness and more
lumens is usually better. A low cost monitor, sufficient for office
productivity, can be rated as low as 250 lumens while a high performance CAD/CAM
or gaming monitor can be rated in the tens of thousands of lumens.


== External storage drives External Storage Drives

External hard drives, solid state drives (SSD), and optical drives store data
outside of the computer itself. They are usually not the primary drive but are
used to back up data or increase overall storage capacity. They connect via USB,
eSATA, or Thunderbolt connections.

• External storage drives

Hot swappable drivesprovide storage flexibility for PCs and laptops through an
external interface that allows hard disks to be added or removed without the
need to power down the machine. Originally this was a complex operation, but the
introduction of USB and SATA technologies combine to make this a reasonably safe
process. The configuration can be a single drive or an enclosure that houses
multiple drives that can be swapped in and out as necessary. It is a good idea
to check the write caching status on your drive dock that you intend to swap
drives on. This is disabled by default but it’s best to turn this on to allow
recovery of last data. You will find this setting in Device Manager in the
properties of the device.

Stores data externally.  Good for back ups and for storing data when there is no
space available.
 
Features External Storage Devices include • Portable hard drive • USB thumb
drive • Memory cards
 
Capacity can range from 1GB to 4TB.  Memory cards and thumb drives contain solid
state memory.  Larger portable hard drives contain magnetic drives.
 
Thumb drives are available in a wide variety of shapes and colors.  Can be
customized for promotional activities.
 
Size Portable hard drives are 3.5”, thumb drives are smaller
 
Cost Cost between $5 for a thumb drive, and $200 for a portable hard drive
 
Connectivity Drives connect via USB External cards connect via a card slot in a
== KVM KVM

Keyboard, video, mouse (KVM) switches are typically used in data centers with
many servers. Rather than each server having its own keyboard, video monitor,
and mouse, KVMs connect a single keyboard, monitor, and mouse, to multiple
servers. The user at the KVM can then select which server they are controlling.

KVM Switch

KVM stands for Keyboard Video Mouse. A KVM switch saves space by allowing one
keyboard, monitor, and mouse to be used across multiple PCs. You can switch from
one PC to another by simply pressing a button.

Keyboard-Video-Mouse.  Allows you to share a keyboard, video display, and mouse
with multiple computers.
 
Features The KVM Switch contains three output ports • one for a keyboard (USB or
PS/2) • one for a mouse (USB or PS/2) • one for a monitor (HDMI, VGA, or another
connector)
 
The KVM Switch has two or more input ports.  Each input port allows you to
connect a computer via USB and via video (typically VGA).
 
You can switch inputs by pressing a button on the KVM switch.
 
Good for a rack of servers, where there is only enough space for a single
monitor.
 
A KVM can also be connected to the internet, allowing a user to remotely connect
to a computer via the internet, even when it is Can be small, can be
rack-mounted, depending on the number of inputs
 
Cost Cost between $100 and $1000
 
Connectivity Connect via USB and video input == Magnetic reader/chip reader
Magnetic Reader/Chip Reader

Credit cards and debit cards are read with either a magnetic reader or chip
reader. The magnetic reader is what you swipe the card through, as it reads the
data on the magnetic strip on the card. The chip reader is used to read the chip
on newer cards. Aside from bank cards, they are used to read other types of
cards as well. One example is access cards for opening doors to secure areas.

They often connect to point-of-sale (POS) systems. With the POS services
available today, a POS system can be anything from a computer at a store
checkout to a tablet to a mobile phone in a kiosk. So, there are many possible
connection types, including USB, Lightning, and even the headphone jack on a
phone.

Magnetic reader/chip reader

Allows you read/write data stored on a magnetic card or on a credit card.
 
Features Can be standalone or part of a credit card/debit card machine, which
would allow you to process transactions.
 
A wide range of credit card machines are available.  Some are touch screen.
 
Typically used with point of sale systems.
 
Size Small size
 
Cost Cost between $100 and $1000
 
Connectivity Connect to computer via USB, serial, or Bluetooth.  May connect to
the internet via ethernet or Wi-Fi, or may connect to the == NFC/tap pay device
NFC/Tap Pay Device

Near field communication (NFC) is a form of contactless communication. Two
devices must be within a few centimeters of each other to communicate. It is
most commonly used for tap pay systems that allow you to place a mobile phone or
contactless credit card near the tap pay device to pay. NFC is also used for
transfer photos or files between smartphones. There are other applications for
NFC and more are being created.

ID badges

Security badges contain coded data that identifies you to the security system
and includes a current picture and personal security challenges. Your security
data can be stored on a magnetic strip or NFC contactless storage. The card
should also have the company logo and be tamperproof. NFC is also the technology
that supports tap and pay transactions.

Allows you to read/write data from a cell phone or credit card via Near Field
Communication.
 
Features May be integrated into a credit card reader
 
Size Handheld
 
Cost Cost between $100 and $500
 
Connectivity Connect to computer via USB, serial, or Bluetooth.  May connect to
the internet via ethernet or Wi-Fi, or may connect to the internet through the
computer.
 
Examples Chip Card Reader (contains magnetic card reader as well)
 
 
== Smart card reader Smart Card Reader

Smart cards are similar in form factor to credit cards, but their main purpose
is to securely store data. Smart card readers come in different forms. They may
be built into laptops that the card is inserted into. They may be contactless so
that the card can be read if it is within a few centimeters of the reader.

The most common use for smart cards is to authenticate a user to a system. In
addition to a username and password, it serves as a second factor of
authentication.

Smart cards

Smart cards are another way to deliver security tokens to the system. Smart
cards may or may not be combined with badge technology. One thing that separates
many smart cards from other tech is its ability to both send and receive data.
This enables mutual authentication, allowing each component to trust the other.
Smart card readers scan for smartcards in range. When one is detected,
communication can begin.

Smartcard

Allows you to read/write data stored on a smart card.  Allows you to access
restricted data on a computer requiring two-factor authentication.
 
Features There are many standards for smart cards.  It is important to locate a
reader that works with the type cards you are utilizing
 
Size Small
 
Cost Cost about $100
 
Connectivity Connects via USB or serial
