= 3.8 Given a scenario, select and configure appropriate components for a custom
PC configuration to meet customer specifications or needs.

Custom PC Configuration (scenario)

You should be able to select the proper components to configure a custom PC to
meet the requirements for specific types of customers.


== Graphic/CAD/CAM design workstation Graphic/CAD/DAM Design Workstation

Graphic design workstations require a lot of fast memory and powerful graphics
processing capabilities.

SSD—A magnetic drive may be too slow to meet the demands of graphics design
workstations. A solid state drive with faster access times should be selected.

Design of 3D models or Computer Aided Drafting / Modeling 
 
Case Standard ATX Case 
 
Processor Multi-Core Processor 
 
RAM 16GB or 32GB, DDR4 dual-channel 
 
Storage Solid State Drive, adequate capacity (may store data on network, check
with user) 
 
Graphics Separate graphics card with adequate memory (4GB), output for multiple
monitors 
 
Sound Optional 
 
Display Multiple monitors 
 
Cooling Normal cooling 
 
Software Special software for engineering and/or drafting 

=== Multicore processor === High-end video High-end video—A powerful graphics
card with a dedicated graphics processing unit is essential.



=== Maximum RAM

Maximum RAM—High-end graphics work with large chunks of data at a time. RAM is
working memory, so the more you have, the better the performance will be.  ==
Audio-video editing workstation Audio/Video Editing Workstation

Audio/video editing workstations perform best if they have an expansion card
dedicated to editing. This may be in the form of two separate cards, a video
card and a sound card, or one card that handles both video and sound. Editors
work with large files, so a lot of storage space is needed. Dual monitors allow
editors to do editing on one monitor and review the video on the other.

Audio and video editing workstation 
 
Case Standard ATX Case 
 
Processor Multi-core processor 
 
RAM 16GB or 32GB, DDR4 dual-channel 
 
Storage Solid State Drive, large capacity to store raw video May require
multiple drives to store video (additional drives can be magnetic to reduce
costs) 
 
Graphics Separate graphics card with adequate memory (4GB), output for multiple
monitors 
 
Sound 16-Channel sound card with speakers 
 
Display Multiple high-resolution displays 
 
Cooling Normal cooling 
 
Software Special software for audio/video editing  

=== Specialized audio and video card Specialized audio and video card—Editing
requires more processing power than is available on some motherboard CPUs.
Specialized video and/or audio cards provide added processing power.


=== Large, fast hard drive Large, fast hard drive—Editing often involves working
with large files, so a large, fast hard drive is needed. It is also helpful to
have an additional solid state drive that can move large working files quickly.

=== Dual monitors Dual monitors—Video editing software has a lot of controls
that are presented in separate Windows™. Dual monitors allow editors to spread
these controls across different monitors. A separate monitor to review the
edited video is another use of dual monitors.


== Virtualization workstation Virtualization Workstation

Virtualization workstations are designed to run multiple virtual machines (VMs)
on a single computer. Each VM needs CPU power and memory, so you need to
maximize CPU cores and RAM. The more CPU cores and memory you have, the more VMs
you will be able to run.

Acts as a server that runs multiple virtual machines.  Will handle applications
for multiple users.  Typically, will connect to computer via RDP or other remote
  access protocol. 
 
Case Ideal to use a rack-mount case 
 
Processor Multi-core processor, or multiple processors if demand is high enough 
 
RAM 32GB or 64GB of RAM Determine amount of RAM based on number of users 
 
Storage Solid State Drive, medium capacity 1TB may be okay, may use SAS drives
May use RAID setup or Network Attached 

egrated graphics is acceptable, since computer won’t be connected to a monitor 
 
Sound Sound not required 
 
Display Display not required, or use a basic monitor or KVM 
 
Cooling Standard cooling 
 
Software Hypervisor software Server operating system ther software as required
by users 
 
Network NIC with multiple interfaces, 1Gbps === Maximum RAM and CPU cores ==
Gaming PC Gaming PC

Gaming PCs are among the most demanding custom PC types. They require the
fastest audio and video processing, so a solid state drive (SSD), high-end
graphical processing unit (GPU), and high-definition sound card are needed.

SSD—Video games cannot load completely into RAM, so they need to load from disk
at times during game play. That can cause a momentary pause in the game if not
done fast enough. To minimize the chances of such delays, SSD is preferred over
a magnetic disk drive.

quires high-end components for optimal performance ndard case.  May provide case
with LEDs or other fancy components 
 
Processor Multi-core 
 
RAM 16GB or 32GB, DDR4 dual-channel 
 
Storage Solid State Drive, large capacity 1TB may be adequate 
 
Graphics Separate graphics card with adequate memory (4GB) and output for
multiple monitors 
 
Sound High quality sound card with 16-channels High quality surround sound
speakers 
 
Display Multiple monitors with high resolution & refresh rate 
 
Cooling Liquid cooling if computer is overclocked 
 
Software None 
 
Other Components Mechanical keyboard 

=== Multicore processor === High-end video/specialized GPU *High-end
video/specialized GPU—A **dedicated GPU is required to provide the high-end
video that gamers demand. The video is constantly being updated and even the
slightest lag can take the enjoyment out of a game.


=== High-definition sound card *High-definition sound card**—Sound plays a major
role in some games, so a high-definition sound card is essential.

=== High-end cooling *High-end cooling—Multiple high-end components, especially
the GPUs and CPUs, generate a lot of heat, so high-end cooling is a must. In
some cases, **liquid cooling is necessary.



== Standard thick client Standard computer used for basic office applications
and e-mail. 
 
Case Standard ATX Case 
 
Processor Multi-core processor 
 
RAM 8GB or 12GB of RAM 
 
Storage Magnetic hard drive 
 
Graphics Integrated graphics card 
 
Sound Integrated sound card 
 
Display Basic monitor or two monitors 
 
Cooling Standard cooling 
 
Software Typical office software === Desktop applications === Meets recommended
requirements for selected OS == Thin client Connects to virtualization server.
Doesn’t require much processing power.  Processing will take place on the
server. 
 
Case Standard ATX case or mini case. 
 
Processor Single-core processor 
 
RAM 4GB RAM 
 
Storage Magnetic Drive, 250GB 
 
Graphics Integrated graphics 
 
Sound Integrated sound 
 
Display Basic display or two displays 
 
Cooling Basic cooling 
 
Software Typical office software === Basic applications === Meets minimum
requirements for selected OS === Network connectivity == Network attached
storage device Network Attached Storage Device

Network attached storage (NAS) devices have a dedicated purpose of storing and
providing access to files. Files can be stored on a NAS device so that they are
available to all users on the network, without each user needing to have a local
copy.

Stores data for users, network drives, and servers.  Could act as a DVR for a
surveillance system.  Doesn’t require much processing power. 
 
Case Rack-mounted case or Standard ATX Case 
 
Processor Basic processor 
 
RAM 12GB RAM 
 
Storage Combination of solid-state and magnetic drives to reduce cost.  Use
solid-state drives for data that is frequently accessed, and magnetic drive for
data that is archived.  Use SAS connector if needed.  Provide as much capacity
as possible Provide RAID controller for redundancy 
 
Graphics Integrated graphics 
 
Sound Integrated sound 
 
Display No display required 
 
Cooling Standard cooling 
 
Software No software required 
 
Network NIC with multiple interfaces May require NIC with Fiber Channel or NIC
with 

=== Media streaming Media streaming—NAS devices provide streaming capabilities
so that users can watch videos or listen to music without downloading files.


=== File sharing File sharing—NAS devices allow users to download files to their
local PC or device.


=== Gigabit NIC Gigabit NIC—The throughput demand on a NAS server can be
significant because multiple users may be streaming or transferring large files
simultaneously. A gigabit network interface card (NIC) should be used to
minimize the risk of the NIC becoming a bottleneck.


=== RAID array

RAID array—NAS devices often store important files, whether business documents
or treasured photos. So it is important to protect those files with redundancy.
A redundant array of inexpensive disks (RAID) provides redundancy in NAS
devices. RAID uses an array of disk drives that, depending on the configuration,
may employ parity checking and error correction to ensure that data is not lost.

Hard drive—NAS devices usually store large quantities of files, so hard drives
are used to meet the demand for high-capacity storage.

