---
title: 4.1-Compare-and-contrast-best-practices-associated-with-types-of-documentation
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 11-01-04
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 4.1-Compare-and-contrast-best-practices-associated-with-types-of-documentation
= 4.1 – Compare and contrast best practices associated with types of documentation.
== Network topology diagrams
== Knowledge base/articles
== Incident documentation
== Regulatory and compliance policy
== Acceptable use policy
== Password policy
== Inventory management
=== Asset tags
=== Barcodes


Documentation

It’s vital to ensure that you read any required documentation before you begin working on any system. Documentation includes items such as processes and procedures, network diagrams, knowledge base articles (also known as KBs), and much more. It’s also important to document any fixes that have been implemented so they can be referenced later. Another example of documentation includes Safety Data Sheets (SDS). The SDS outlines the procedures for disposing of hazardous materials. This should be referenced if there is a question about properly disposing of hazardous material. The SDS is administered by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) within the United States.
Network Topology Diagrams

Network topology diagrams are extremely helpful for performing any network upgrades or even to troubleshoot networking problems. The network topology diagrams will provide a visual representation of how the network is laid out, including both logical and physical information for the devices. Visio is a popular tool used when creating network diagrams.
Knowledge Base/Articles

A knowledge base is a repository of information regarding an application or system. When working on a system or troubleshooting an issue, individuals should first visit the systems knowledge base to see if a solution to their issue already exists.
Incident Documentation

You should adhere to the following order of operations when responding to any incident occurring on your computer network.

First response: The first step is the proper confirmation that an incident has happened, or is taking place. You should gather as much information as possible on the event, and report it through the proper authorized channels at the organization. These items will be outlined in a sound security policy.

Documentation: The next step is to document as much as possible. You can make use of pictures, scratch notes, or event logs to collect and assemble this information.

Chain of custody: Lastly, you want to make sure the information you have is preserved, especially in the event that information changes. Maintaining the integrity of the information is the most important step from this point forward. Any unaccounted changes could call into question the reliability of the information, making any work done since the first step useless.
Regulatory and Compliance Policy

When dealing with a networking environment, there are several regulations to keep in mind. These include: electrical codes for running high/low voltage cabling, environmental codes for disposing of chemicals or hardware, fire prevention codes requiring the specific use of dry or wet systems, and building codes that specify how cabling can be run through a building.
Acceptable Use Policy

An acceptable use policy (AUP) is a policy put in place by an organization that states which types of actions are acceptable to perform using their equipment. Many organizations implement acceptable use policies which state how employees are allowed to use their company-owned devices. Whenever accessing a public wi-fi, such as at a coffee shop like Starbucks™, you will have to acknowledge the AUP before getting access to the network.
Password Policy

Password policies state what is required when creating a password. Weak passwords can lead to data breaches and identity theft. To ensure that users create strong passwords, most password policies will include requirements for length, complexity, and history.
Inventory Management

Inventory management is the process of maintaining a database of which devices and systems exist within an organization. Inventory management is often done using a third-party program to keep track of devices within larger organizations.
Asset Tags

An asset tag is a method of inventory management. By adding asset tags to devices, it’s easier to keep track of devices, including who has the device and where they are located.
Barcodes

Barcodes are types of asset tags that can be easily scanned to keep track of the devices.

Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! This edition will cover objective 4.1 Compare and contrast best practices associated with types of documentation. In this section, we will cover the ideal methods for documentation. Dig in!

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002
Network topology diagrams

All IT departments should have and maintain network topology diagrams which depict current mapping information and connected devices. In the example shown below, observe that all of the devices encountered, such as Cloud resources, VLAN trunks and switches, routers, firewalls, and hosts, will be depicted in the network topology diagram along with their connection types, status, and addressing information. Note that all the addressing information is clear and up-to-date. You can see a problem in the 192.168.60.0 /24 subnet at the upper-left. Hopefully you will start out on a smaller scale!

Network topology
Knowledge base/articles

A knowledge base refers to a collective repository for all pertinent information about IT operations. When an IT technician finds or troubleshoots a hardware or software issue, they should update their findings within the IT department’s knowledge base. They should also include installation and configuration details. This will help the IT department resolve recurring problems and help train new personnel.
Regulatory and compliance policy

Every organization is required to adhere to the laws, regulations, and policies relevant to their industry. Collectively referred to as the regulation and compliance policy, this policy will be tailored to the organization’s responsibilities. Maintaining compliance can be quite complicated and generally requires an individual or a whole department. As an IT technician, you will be expected to be aware of and follow the policies and guidelines in order to maintain compliance. Part of your organization’s onboarding process will include training in this area.
Acceptable use policy

Most employees will need to consent to an Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) as part of their hiring and training process. This policy will clearly define unacceptable practices for employees and will describe activity prohibited on company devices such as viewing objectionable content, unauthorized software installation, and even online shopping. Violation of this policy can be grounds for termination!

Password policy

The password policy covers the organization’s best practices regarding passwords. The policy will cover password length, special character requirements, expiration, and reusability.
Incident documentation

Any incident involving the violation of the AUP or any policies will be investigated internally and documented. Always report suspicious activity to your immediate supervisor and follow their instructions. Keep any evidence intact and document your observations clearly.
Inventory management

Corporate inventory should be monitored and controlled in order to allow tracking of valuable equipment within the organization. There are a few ways to accomplish this. Generally, Asset tags are affixed to computers and monitors. These tags are tamper resistant and can be tracked using asset tracking software. The tag will identify the company (owner) and have Barcodes that can be used with asset tracking software. RFID tags can also be used, allowing for a greater chance of recovering stolen equipment.
