= 4.2 Given a scenario, set up and configure client-side virtualization.



Virtualization (scenario)

At times, it is necessary to configure a virtual machine to run on your local
desktop. This process is known as client-side virtualization. In order to set up
and configure client-side virtualization, you’ll need to first verify that your
physical system’s hardware can meet the resource requirements needed for a
virtual machine. Next, you’ll need to install a hypervisor on your local
machine. After the hypervisor is installed, you can create a virtual machine and
configure the proper virtualized hardware for the guest operating system you’d
like to use. After all of these steps are complete, you may install the
operating system the same way that you install an operating system on a physical
machine.


Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! In this section, we will look at
virtualization, the ability to do more with less. Multiple tasks that once took
multiple machines to perform can now be done by one machine’s processing power.
This process is called virtualization and can involve two methods. Server-side
virtualization (Type 1) occurs when all of the processing is handled by the
server which in-turn delivers virtual environments or machines to each client.
Client-side virtualization (Type 2) occurs when the client desktops are
virtualized into multiple machines. In both cases, the virtual machines operate
in their own isolated space where their OS is installed on software which is
used to emulate physical hardware.


== Purpose of virtual machines Purpose

Virtual machines are useful because they allow for the use of multiple desktops
without the need to purchase expensive hardware for every single machine. One
use for a virtual desktop is the need for multiple operating systems. Imagine a
user that has a Windows® desktop, but needs to perform a specific task on a
Linux® machine. Rather than needing to purchase an entirely new computer to run
Linux®, the user could simply create a virtual machine on her Windows® machine
that would run Linux®.

Requirements

Before being able to create a virtual machine, there are requirements to
satisfy. A hypervisor is required in order to run a virtual machine. It’s also
important to ensure that the physical hardware CPU has hardware virtualization
support. The majority of new computers today will have hardware virtualization
support as both AMD and Intel added it to all of their CPUs over a decade ago.

Purpose of virtual machines

The purpose of virtual machines (VMs) is multi-layered. Primarily,
virtualization maximizes the resources available. No additional physical
resources are required for each virtual machine such as keyboards, mice, and
monitors. This reduces energy consumption and also lowers overall heat
generation. Another very stabilizing aspect of using the virtual environment is
that since the entire machine is now essentially software, it is easier to
backup and much easier to transport. There is no hardware to transport and only
the set of files, including the VHD (Virtual Hard Disk), is required for
transportation.

Virtual machines are run on software that emulates a customizable, physical
hardware environment and supports the installation and operation of multiple
operating systems. This is beneficial in application testing where a single
physical machine can support Windows, OS X, and Linux systems, providing a
reliable operational environment to evaluate the products. This configuration
also enables the user to run an older application, for example one that requires
Windows XP, by installing it on a virtual Windows XP machine.

Classifications for Virtual Machines depend on the processing power of the
client and are as follows:

Zero client – this is essentially a “dumb terminal” and consists of a keyboard,
mouse, monitor, and network interface. There is no operating system and this
type uses complete server-side virtualization.

Thin client – this client does little to no processing but does have enough
resources to barely support an operating system. This type relies on the server
to do all of the processing.

Thick / Fat client – this is a fully functional workstation PC or portable
device that is entirely self-sufficient and will access the server only when
necessary.


Why do we need virtual machines?  There are several benefits • Run multiple
operating systems on the same physical server at the same time.  For example, we
can run Windows and Unix on the same physical server at the same time.  • Run
multiple virtual servers on the same physical server at the same time.  We
install a program called a hypervisor.  The hypervisor is the base operating
system.  We use the hypervisor to create virtual servers.  We install an
operating system on each virtual server.  The hypervisor allows the virtual
servers share the same physical resources.  The virtual servers can’t talk to
each other, except through a software defined network.  • Reduce resource
consumption.  Consider an example where our organization requires a file server,
an e-mail server, and a web server.  If we purchase a separate physical server
for each function, we would require three servers, even if each service does not
  utilize its server to its maximum capacity.  We could do the following
  instead: o Obtain one physical server o Create three virtual servers on the
  physical server o Install a file server function on one virtual server, an
  e-mail server on the second, and a web server on the third o The server would
  operate at a higher capacity, and would therefore be more efficient • Desktop
  virtualization.  Desktop virtualization allows users to connect to the machine
  via a remote desktop protocol.  It reduces the total amount of computing
  resources because a single server can host many user desktops at the same
  time.  It also centralizes the location of user data, allowing easy back ups. 
 
== Resource requirements Resource

Not all virtual machines are created equal. This is because the individual that
is building the virtual machine determines what resources to provide to the
virtual machine. This means determining the amount of hard drive space and the
amount of memory that your local machine can afford to give the virtual machine.
If your physical machine doesn’t have a lot of RAM, then you will not be able to
provide enough RAM for your virtual machine to run smoothly.

Resource requirements

Resource requirements for hypervisors, or Virtual Machine Monitors (VMMs),
depend on the scale, number of virtual machines (or instances) to be deployed,
the anticipated number of users, and the type of hypervisor being used. The VMM
allocates a specified amount of Processor cores, memory, and hard disk space to
each virtual machine instance. There must be sufficient resources to support the
host operating system, the VMM, and the VMs to be deployed.

Shown below is an example of a generous allotment of Processor, memory, and disk
space which has been dedicated to a VM. Note the memory allocation and remember
that the 64-bit version of Windows 8 only requires 2 GB of memory. The
additional Processor, memory, and disk space can then be used to support more
users. The VMM captures these resources when this example VM is running.

Virtual Machine settings

The VMM controls the total amount of memory available for all VMs while leaving
sufficient resources for the host. You should not run a VM below its system
requirements or above an amount that is supportable by the host as performance
will suffer. This particular host has a 6 core processor and 16 GB of memory.
With a host requirement of 2 GB and a 2 TB hard disk, there is plenty of room
for a single VM instance. As you enable each VM instance, less computing power
  is available to the host.

How much resources are required?  When you set up a hypervisor, you must select
the necessary amount of resources for each virtual machine, including RAM,
processing speed, and hard drive space.  The virtual resources allocated to a
virtual machine can be different from the actual physical resources on the
underlying hardware.  The hypervisor tricks the virtual machine into believing
that the resources are there.  The total amount of resources allocated to all
the virtual machines on a physical server can be greater than the total amount
of resources that exist on the physical server.  Not every server needs all its
resources all the time.  But every server needs some resources.  If too 

== Emulator requirements Emulator

It’s easy to confuse the terms emulation and virtualization, but while they may
go hand-in-hand, they are two different concepts. During virtualization, the
virtual desktop creates a completely new simulated environment. Emulators are
used to mimic or imitate the behavior of another device. One common use for
emulators is in the video game industry. Gamers are able to emulate a Super
Nintendo® on their computer, this allows them to play old games like Super Mario
Bros® on their computer without the need for the Super Nintendo® hardware.

Emulator requirements

One thing is constant: the host system’s UEFI/BIOS must support virtualization.
Intel platforms use Intel VT and AMD platforms use AMD-V. Without these
enhancements, virtualization on the host is not possible. The Emulator (VMM)
must have access to enough resources in order to sufficiently cover the host OS
and any resource allocations due to the VMs.

Shown below is the same VM running alongside a Linux installation that has 2 GB
assigned. That’s 2 GB for the host, 2 GB for the Linux instance, and 6 GB for
the Windows install which equates to 10 GB total memory usage.

VM Resource usage

In comparison at rest with no VMM enabled, the machine uses roughly 30% of the
Processor and 4.1 GB RAM.

Emulator vs Hypervisor?  A hypervisor works with the CPU’s virtualization
technology.  It is a bare metal approach in that it runs directly on the server
as the base operating systems.  All virtual machine operating systems run on top
of the hypervisor.  An emulator is a software program that mimics the specific
hardware properties.  It does not rely on the CPU.  It runs as a guest inside a
host operating system.  The emulator tricks the guest operating 

== Security requirements Security

Just as security is vital in physical computing, it’s also important to think of
security when working with virtual machines. This means implementing the same
types of security controls on your virtual desktops as you would on your
physical ones such as strong passwords, account lock out policies, and even
multi-factor authentication.

Security requirements

Security requirements for VMs are particularly important because new users tend
to think that VMs are protected by the host’s antivirus/antimalware software.
This is not the case. Remember that virtual machines are completely isolated
from the host. Install the proper protection packages on your VM and also
realize that as a “machine,” separate software licensing applies in most cases.
Read your agreement carefully.

Security?  Hypervisor software is robust and secure, but there are always bugs
and software flaws that could be discovered later.  The biggest concern is that
data could leak from one virtual server to another (either through the RAM,
processor, or hard disk drive).  It is important to • Apply software updates
when they become available • Keep the server physically secure • Secure the
management interface for the hypervisor • Disable unnecessary services • Avoid
running sensitive applications on shared servers == Network requirements Network

Virtual networking is a bit different than standard networking, and there are
few options that you should be aware of.

    Internal networking—This function allows a VM to communicate with other VMs
    that you specify, but not access the Internet or any other computers on your
    network.

    Bridged mode—In bridge mode, the VM is able to communicate directly through
    the network to which the physical machine is connected.

    NAT mode—Having a VM network in NAT mode allows the VM to make outbound
    connections only.

Network requirements

On a hosted VMM, you cannot consume more network bandwidth than the host can
support. For example, if you create instances of a Web server, an FTP server,
and a file server on the host machine and the instances experience high network
traffic, the host PC’s networking performance will fail since the network
bandwidth will be allocated to the running VMs. If the network traffic is really
high, the network performance of the VMs will also fail.

Network Requirements?  Each virtual machine will have one or more virtual
network interfaces, each with a virtual MAC address.  The network interfaces
will be established through software defined network.  The hardware ethernet
port(s) on the server will connect to the network and must be shared by the
virtual servers.  It is possible to create a virtual (software-defined) network
that connects the virtual machines and route traffic to the physical network.
The hardware ethernet port(s) therefore act as a switch, where the 

== Hypervisor Hypervisor

Full virtualization is not possible without the use of a hypervisor. A
hypervisor handles all of the interactions during virtualization and makes it
possible for one host to run multiple guest operating systems at the same time.
VMware ESXi® and Microsoft Hyper-V® are two examples of popular hypervisors.
Hypervisor

Hypervisor is another term to identify the Virtual Machine Manager (VMM).
Hypervisors come in two types. Yes! That’s right! Type 1 and Type 2.

A Type 1 hypervisor (Bare Metal) is installed on a clean machine with no
operating system, typically a server class machine in a multi-server
environment. Compared to a conventional operating system, this allows for more
system resources to be dedicated to the VMs due to the nearly nonexistent
overhead. In order to remotely configure the hypervisor, Type 1 hypervisors
require a Management Console to be installed on a separate physical machine.
This external control is required due to the lack of an operating system on the
target hardware.

Type 1 hypervisor management consoles have the capability to dynamically
allocate resources. This is easily demonstrated in the case of RAM. If you have
16 GB of RAM installed, dynamic allocation can support multiple VMs configured
with 16, 10, 8 and 4 GB of RAM for a total of 38 GB. The memory resources are
supplied to the VMs as needed, meaning that in most cases the total requirement
of the VMs will not exceed 16 GB and each virtual machine will get what it needs
at any particular time. If the memory capacity is exceeded, the VM instance will
be moved seamlessly and imperceptibly to a server that can support it.

A Type 2 hypervisor (Hosted) is dependent on a host system’s operating system in
order to run. The picture below shows a Type 2 hypervisor installed on a Windows
machine that is running two VMs, one Linux and one Windows. In the left-pane,
you can see the library of available VMs.

Most type 2 hypervisors allocate all of the designated resources upon the boot
of each instance. It is quite possible to crash the host OS by over-allocating
resources. For example, consider we have multiple instances of the same OS
available and identically configured for testing. If we were to turn them all on
at the same time, the allocated resources would exceed the available resources
and the Host, as well as the VMs, would all crash. Be aware of the finite nature
of your resources and how your hypervisor type will deliver them to the VM
instances.

Type 2 Hypervisor
