---
title: 4.2-Given-a-scenario,-implement-basic-change-management-best-practices
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-56
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 4.2-Given-a-scenario,-implement-basic-change-management-best-practices
= 4.2 – Given a scenario, implement basic change management best practices.
== Documented business processes
== Purpose of the change
== Scope the change
== Risk analysis
== Plan for change
== End-user acceptance
== Change board
=== Approvals
== Backout plan
== Document changes

Management Change (scenario)

Management Change (also called Change Management) is the process of addressing changes within an organization. Whenever a change is going to be made in an organization, proper procedures must be followed to ensure that any negative impact on the business or users is minimized.
Documented Business Processes

Any time a change is made within an organization, it’s important to ensure that the business processes are documented. If the change is going to affect the current business processes, it should be evaluated and documented.
Purpose of the Change

Before making any changes, the purpose of the change must be documented. Typically, a cost-benefit analysis will also be done to see if the purpose of the change is worth the cost to implement and re-train staff on the new procedures.
Scope of the Change

Scope refers to the extent of the changes that will be made. While documenting the scope, it should outline exactly which items will be modified and changed through the project.
Risk Analysis

When making any changes within an environment, new risk will likely be introduced. Before making any changes in the environment, a risk analysis must be done. Upon defining the new risks which may arise, the organization must choose to accept, mitigate, or avoid the risk.
Plan for Change

Whenever implementing changes, it’s also important to plan for changes that may arise throughout that process. Before implementing anything, there should be a plan in place for change.
End-User Acceptance

In order for a successful change, all users must be on board and prepared for the change. User acceptance testing is a common practice in which real users ensure that the change doesn’t negatively affect their ability to perform tasks.
Change Board

A change advisory board (CAB) is made up of individuals from various departments throughout the organization. The CAB should also include high-level executives and stakeholders. This board will be responsible for approving the changes before they can be implemented. They will also be in charge of overseeing the project through to completion.
Backout Plan

With any change, there must be a backout plan in case unexpected issues arise. A backout plan would include a way to revert to a previous version of the system before the change was applied.
Document Changes

One of the most important aspects of the change management process is to document all changes as they are being made. This includes documenting any new processes that must be followed as a result of the change. All challenges that arise as a result of the change should also be documented.



Documented business processes

Best practices are supported by the network topology diagram and asset tracking which are both covered in Objective 4.1. There’s more to it as you will see.

It’s always good to know why something is being done, especially in business. When documentation needs to be changed, a formal change request process needs to be followed. This process can be as simple as obtaining management approval. However, for a complex change that would have an associated risk, the change request will be submitted to a change advisory board (CAB). The change board will authorize, prioritize, and schedule the change. Once authorized, the change can be sent to the parties responsible for change management for approval. If approved, the change plan can be initiated. The change request must outline clearly what needs to be done.
Scope of change

When defining the scope of change, clearly outline in the change plan individual responsibilities for planning, implementation, and support. Address the key components, what skill sets and activities will be required, the parties participating, and most importantly, the success metrics for the change.
Risk analysis

A risk analysis should be performed in order to preemptively address potential problems before they occur. The goal is to determine the likelihood and impact of each problem and have a response plan in place that can address it.
Backout plan

A solid backout plan should be created in order to offset a worst-case scenario. Devise a plan in order to be able to revert to the pre-change state. All the activity and responsibilities for the backout should be clearly addressed and defined before undertaking the change.
End-user acceptance

Remember that you are working for the end-user. Let them know why you are making a change and what the benefits are. Here is an excerpt from an email we received from our bank outlining a change to their online banking system:

“We recently upgraded our Online/Mobile Banking system. One of the primary reasons we converted to the new platform is to improve our Mobile App experience. Our NEW Mobile App gives you the full ‘mybank’ Online Banking experience, not just a couple of features. View account balances, pay bills, transfer money, deposit checks, apply for a loan, and more from the convenience of your mobile device. To learn more and view all of the enhancements the new system provides, visit our Online and Mobile Banking Resource Center and let us know what you think.”
Document changes

When executing a change plan, it is crucial that detailed documentation is maintained. This documentation must be updated throughout the process. Verbal modifications should never be a part of the change management process. Well, that’s all for 4.2! Pretty painless right? Keep up the good work!
