---
title: 4.3-Given-a-scenario,-implement-basic-disaster-prevention-and-recovery-methods
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 11-01-04
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 4.3-Given-a-scenario,-implement-basic-disaster-prevention-and-recovery-methods
= 4.3 – Given a scenario, implement basic disaster prevention and recovery methods.
== Backup and recovery
=== Image level
=== File level
=== Critical applications
== Backup testing
== UPS
== Surge protector
== Cloud storage vs. local storage backups
== Account recovery options

Disaster Prevention and Recovery (scenario)

All organizations should have a business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR) plan documented and in place. Disaster prevention and recovery refers to the ability to be able to bounce back after any type of disaster, such as a natural disaster or a cyber attack.
Backup and Recovery

Disaster can strike at any time, making it a requirement of information technology teams to have a full set of backups so they can quickly recover after an incident. Organizations should have full backups (which includes a backup of everything) and incremental backups (which includes only what has changed since the previous backup).
Image Level

An image-level backup creates a full snapshot of the system at a given point in time. This creates more of a full picture of the operating system and all the files included. This is a more complete option than file-level backups.
File Level

File-level backups are exactly what they sound like: individual files and folders are selected to be backed up.
Critical Applications

Critical applications should always be a priority when performing backups. File backups may not cut it when trying to backup critical applications. Microsoft Exchange servers and SQL servers will require additional work to back up above and beyond what file-level backups can offer.
Backup Testing

It’s not enough to perform backups; the backups must also be tested. The test serves to show that the backup files are not corrupt and that they are backing up everything that would need to be restored in the event of a disaster. Backup tests should be conducted regularly.
UPS

If servers are not properly shut down, they can be damaged. This means that if there were to be a power outage, the server operating systems or applications may become corrupt. In order to prevent this type of scenario, systems should be plugged into an uninterruptible power supply (UPS). A UPS is an electrical device which provides power to a device in the event that the main power source fails.
Surge Protector

Surges occur when there is a spike in voltage or noise along the line. This can cause damage to equipment if the surge reaches the equipment. Surge protectors can counter this and send the excess voltage to the ground.
Cloud Storage vs. Local Storage Backups

Organizations will have to choose whether to use local storage backups (such as tape backups) or to back up to cloud storage. Some organizations may also opt to have both local and cloud storage as a second layer of disaster recovery. One drawback of cloud storage is that the data owner doesn’t have full control over the data or where it is stored in the cloud.
Account Recovery Options

Account recovery options will vary depending on which type of account needs to be recovered. Many online accounts will have a “forgot your password?” option which will allow the user to have a password reset link emailed to them. If local accounts need to be recovered, Windows 10 has built-in features to recover lost passwords.



Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! In this edition, we will cover Objective 4.3 Given a scenario, implement basic disaster prevention and recovery methods. We will cover the methods used to safeguard data and prevent loss when catastrophic events occur. The term disaster prevention is a little misleading since there is no guaranteed way to prevent a disaster. Otherwise, we would be tornado proofing trailer parks. Mitigation is the only real way to prevent a data disaster. Store your data on more than one device and more than one location if possible. Okay, here we go!

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002
Backup and recovery

Consider an unrepairable hardware failure that results in total data loss. A data backup would be invaluable here.

There are different types of backups. The type of backup to create depends on the data that needs to be backed up and how that data will be recovered. Formulate a backup strategy based on your needs and the habits of any employees.

Here are the backup type options:

File level

A file-level backup is ideal for backing up user data such as files and folders. Depending on the amount of data, this can be a fast backup and recovery method. Since this is a file level backup, the amount of data to recover can be easily specified.

Image level

An image-level backup creates an image of an entire volume including the operating system, applications, and settings. This method enables the system to be restored to the state captured in the latest backup. There is no singular file or folder option here. The entire volume must be restored.

Critical applications

In the business environment, plan backups for mission-critical applications in order to minimize downtime. Consider this as a business continuity solution as opposed to one of data recovery. Other business continuity considerations will be considered later.
Cloud storage vs. local storage backups

Now that you know what should be backed up, you’ll need to decide where to keep the backups. Cloud storage is a highly reliable online solution. Data can be stored off-site, providing more protection from fire, floods, and other natural disasters.

Cloud storage applications and services are widely available. While they are not free, cloud-based backup and storage applications can be configured to perform scheduled encrypted backups with the added benefit of guaranteed accessibility. Research the cloud provider. It would be bad if your cloud storage provider went out of business, making your data inaccessible.

Local backup storage is a good solution provided that the data is backed up to another physical disk, machine, or better still, an off-site location. External disks, SSD devices, and optical media can be used to store portable backups. This allows for total control of the data, however, the cost of hardware and support must be considered.
Backup testing

Regardless of whether local backups or cloud-based solutions are used, the backup must be periodically tested. Test the recovery capability of your solution to ensure it is working.
UPS

At the end of the day, business continuity relies on electricity. Without a clean reliable power source, not much will get done. An Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) provides a consistent, reliable power supply. The battery backup, within the UPS, runs business equipment from a battery supply that is constantly being charged. This allows the business equipment to run from a clean stable power source.

UPSs are rated by wattage and Volt-amps. When selecting a UPS, calculate the anticipated load and choose a power supply that is rated approximately 40% higher, e.g. a 600W load would require a 1000W UPS. This extra headroom will provide longer runtime in the event of a power failure and will not overly tax the unit. If you have electric generators, the UPSs will allow for seamless switching. UPSs provide protection against surges, brownouts, and blackouts.

UPS-Battery Backup
Surge protector

A surge protector provides protection against voltage spikes. When the surge protector senses voltage higher than its rating, the surge protector trips an internal breaker that cuts power to its outlets. Once a surge has been triggered, the surge protector needs to be replaced. If the surge protector has an indicator light, the light will flicker. Also, many surge protectors contain phone and Ethernet jacks and should be used if available. Electricity can use any physical connection to enter the system. Phones, modems, and network cards are not capable of handling high voltage. In our example below, observe that this surge protector has indicators for Line, Fault, and Protection.

Surge protector

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002
Account recovery options

Most users find themselves with numerous online accounts which are associated with the services they use. Most account problems can be resolved with a password reset. The Windows 10 operating system allows for two types of accounts to be created:

Local accounts are not portable and are only accessible on a single PC. Earlier Windows versions utilized this type of account. Local accounts are not reliant on an internet connection and allow the user to create custom usernames and passwords that only exist on that computer. These accounts can be recovered by restoring from a backup or attempting a password reset. Windows accounts are actually cloud-based and will save and store the user’s account settings online. This provides the same experience on each PC the user logs onto. Recovering this account consists of a password reset or recovery using a backup or system restore point.
