---
title: 4.8-Identify-the-basics-of-scripting
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-56
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 4.8-Identify-the-basics-of-scripting
= 4.8 – Identify the basics of scripting.
== Script file types
=== .bat
=== .ps1
=== .vbs
=== .sh
=== .py
=== .js
== Environment variables
== Comment syntax
== Basic script constructs
=== Basic loops
=== Variables
== Basic data types
=== Integers
=== Strings


Scripting

Scripting can be used to automate IT management processes. It is important to be familiar with all of these concepts.
Script File Types

You should be able to identify the basic types of script files.

.bat— A batch file is a series of commands to be run by the Windows operating system stored in a plain text file.

.ps1— A .ps1 file is used to run scripts in Powershell.

.vbs—A .vbs file contains lines of codes in the Visual Basic programming language which are encoded in plain text format.

.sh— A .sh file is like the batch files of Windows but they can be executed in Linux or Unix.

.py— A .py script is a script written in the Python programming language.

.js—. A .js file is a script written in JavaScript.
Environment Variables

An environment variable is a dynamic-named value that can affect the way running processes act on a computer. Shell scripts and batch files use environment variables to communicate data and preferences to child processes.
Comment Syntax

Adding comments to your scripts can help both you and individuals who view your script in the future understand what you were trying to accomplish. The syntax used to add comments will vary depending on the programming language, but often a / or // will denote a comment.
Basic Script Constructs

Basic loops— A basic loop structure encloses a sequence of statements in between the loop and end loop statements. With each iteration, the sequence of statements is executed and then control resumes at the top of the loop.

Variables—- A variable is a symbolic name for a piece of memory to which we can assign values, and read and manipulate its contents.
Basic Data Types

You should be aware of the following data types.

Integers— An integer is a whole number (not a fraction) that can be positive, negative, or zero.

Strings—A string is essentially a string of characters used to represent text rather than numbers.


Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster. This edition will cover Exam Objective 4.8 Identify the basics of scripting. Scripts are a dependable way to execute a series of commands. The beauty of scripts is that they are reusable. Once written or compiled, the script can be run reliably when needed. We will start by defining the file types. Next, we will discuss the contents of the script files and how to format their instructions.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002
Script file types

When multiple systems require the same set of commands to be run, script files save time and effort. A script usually contains multiple sets of commands that can be executed manually, at startup, or by a program that uses it. Here are the script file types you’ll need to be aware of along with their specific file types and use.

.bat

A batch file (.bat) is a list of commands that can be run in the Windows environment at the command prompt (serving as the interpreter) or from other scripts. .bat files can be simple text files containing syntactically correct commands which are then saved under the .bat file extension.

.ps1

When using PowerShell, each script created contains one or more cmdlets and is saved under the .ps1 file extension. As the user types, the created cmdlets are checked dynamically by PowerShell in order to ensure error free execution.

.vbs

VBScript is used to create scripts using a programming language and saves them under the .vbs file extension. VBScript is a simpler version of Visual Basic.

.sh

VBScript also creates .sh script files which are executed in the Linux or UNIX environment.

.py

Python scripts (.py) are created with Python and contain commands to be executed by Python.

.js

JavaScript is used to create .js files, designed to enhance interactivity, which define text that has been designed to work with webpages. The .js script is embedded in the webpage, i.e. an HTML file. The .js file loads when the browser opens a webpage.
• Environment variables

Environmental variables are information provided by the operating system that can be used by scripts. This information will include the path and temporary locations for file storage. View the User variables and the System variables by accessing System from Control Panel, selecting System, and then Advanced system settings. Select Environment variables in the Advanced tab of the System Properties box. In this window, properties can be added, edited, or deleted. Note that the variables are assigned separately between the user and the system.

Environment variables
Comment syntax

Some scripts can be quite complex. Remember that once you write a script, other users may need to run it. Add comments in the script such as remarks or instructions regarding the operation of the script. It is important that the command interpreter has a way to disregard these comments so that they are not executed. For example in Windows PowerShell, the # symbol is used to designate a comment line and this text will not be executed.
Basic script constructs

Basic loops

A script containing a basic loop will execute the same command repeatedly. Some scripts run a specified number of times and others run until its conditions are met. A script can also run until the user intervenes with a keystroke combination such as CTRL+C.

Variables

When the name of a data item cannot be exactly specified or is unknown, it is called a variable. In PowerShell the $ represents a variable.
Basic data types

When discussing basic data types, whole numbers are called integers and text entries are referred to as strings.
