---
title: 4.9-Given-a-scenario,-use-remote-access-technologies
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-56
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 4.9-Given-a-scenario,-use-remote-access-technologies
= 4.9 – Given a scenario, use remote access technologies.
== RDP
== Telnet
== SSH
== Third-party tools
=== Screen share feature
=== File share
== Security considerations of each access method

Remote Access Technologies (scenario)

Accessing devices remotely is a major part of troubleshooting issues. Let’s look at a few remote access technologies.
RDP

RDP, or remote desktop protocol, is a Microsoft proprietary technology for remotely accessing Windows computers. RDP provides a user with a graphical interface to connect to another computer over a network connection.
Telnet

Telnet is a protocol which creates a two-way communication connection between computers over a network connection (via the Internet or local area network). Telnet has no graphical user interface like RDP does; it is strictly terminal-based. Telnet typically operates on port 23.
SSH

Telnet is not very secure, so SSH has pretty much replaced telnet for communication over the network. SSH is also a terminal-based program with no graphical interface. SSH operates on port 22.
Third-Party Tools

Many third-party tools can provide a quick, reliable, and efficient way to connect to computers.
Screen Share Feature

One common feature that most third-party remote access tools include is screen sharing. A screen sharing feature allows a technician to view the client’s screen and see exactly what they are seeing.
File Share

File sharing is another feature that comes in handy when working on a remote computer. File sharing allows for files from one device to be moved to the other remote device.
Security Considerations

When considering which remote access option to use, it’s vital to consider the security ramifications. For example, leaving a telnet port open can create security vulnerabilities. When using third-party tools, it’s best to ensure they offer multi-factor authentication so that only legitimate users can gain access to the devices remotely.



RDP

The Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) supports Remote Desktop Connections (RDC). The Use of Remote Desktop dates back to Windows NT from the late 1990’s. Remote Desktop and Remote Assistance use the same protocol and allow for Screen share and File share. Both program’s settings are accessed by opening Control Panel, clicking System, and then Advanced system settings. In the System Properties below, observe the Remote Assistance checkbox which enables Remote Assistance connections to the computer. The Advanced Button enables the user to Allow this computer to be controlled remotely. The maximum time a request remains open can be set as well as the operating systems that can use the service. When enabled, the user can send requests for assistance to trusted parties and allow them to troubleshoot any problems while they watch. See these options in the screenshots below:

Remote Assistance

Remote Desktop is enabled in the same settings box shown above. However, this program enables authenticated users to completely control the computer, locking the local PC during the process. This is most effective when users are allowed to work remotely by connecting to their desktop from another location.

Windows Defender Firewall does not automatically allow these connections. In order to allow these connections, open Control Panel and then Windows Defender Firewall. Find the Allow an app or feature through Windows Defender Firewall menu from the upper left panel. If necessary, click the Change settings button. In the example, below these apps are already allowed.

Allow an app or feature through Windows Defender Firewall
Telnet/SSH

The Telnet protocol essentially creates a virtual terminal or command line interface with a remote terminal device. In the beginning, Telnet enabled remote users to access information and even control routers and switches. Telnet uses unencrypted connections so on Linux systems, this insecure connection method has been neglected in favor of the more secure SSH (Secure Shell) that only uses encrypted connections. By default, SSH is enabled in Windows and Telnet is a client app. the Windows Telnet client, which uses SSH. this needs to be enabled from Control Panel.
Third-party tools

On a secure network, consider that Remote Desktop and Remote Assistance require port 3389 (by default) to be opened which poses a security risk. Third-party software eliminates this risk by operating on port 80 through the internet browser. Since the port is already open and secure, other resources do not need to be compromised.

Some third-party apps are free while others require a subscription. Popular apps include GoToMyPC, LogMeIn, and the RemotePC app shown below. In this case, the app must be installed on the remote host and the client. From this page, many remote computers and servers are securely accessible.

RemotePC
Security considerations of each access method

The security aspects of the access methods are covered within the topics above.
