---
title: 5.1-Given-a-scenario,-use-the-best-practice-methodology-to-resolve-problems
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 11-01-04
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 5.1-Given-a-scenario,-use-the-best-practice-methodology-to-resolve-problems
= 5.1 Given a scenario, use the best practice methodology to resolve problems.


Methodology (scenario)

This objective is relatively self-explanatory and the shortest of them all. In
this section, we will break down best practice methodology for closer inspection
and add comments where necessary.

First of all, always consider corporate policies, procedures, and impact before
implementing changes. Then, while staying within the confines of these policies,
proceed as follows:

Identify the problem using the following steps.

Question the user in order to identify the user’s changes to the computer.

Perform backups before proceeding further.

Inquire regarding environmental or infrastructure changes. This requires you to
check with the user, and any other relevant parties, regarding any changes that
may have impacted the issue.

Review system and application logs. Use Event Viewer on the local machine and
review any server logs that are relevant to the issue.

    Establish a theory of probable cause (question the obvious).

If necessary, conduct external or internal research based on the symptoms. Use
the information you’ve gathered to make a determination about the cause of the
issue.

    Test your theory to determine the cause.

Once your theory is confirmed as the cause of the issue, determine the next
steps to resolve the problem. If your theory is not confirmed or proven
incorrect, come up with a new theory or escalate. Don’t waste time. If your
theory doesn’t work, rethink, get help, or escalate the issue to a higher-level
technician.

    Establish a plan of action to resolve the problem and implement the
    solution. Always plan the steps you need to take in order to resolve the
    problem first. Then follow them.

    Verify full system functionality and implement preventive measures if
    applicable. 

When you are satisfied with your resolution, verify full system operation. You
can have the user perform this validation whenever possible. Take any steps that
would prevent recurrence of the issue.

Problem Solving Process We should always follow the policy of the customer or
the employer before doing anything.  Always follow policy unless it is illegal
or immoral.  If you don’t agree with the policy, you have the option to bring it
up with management.  You should remember that policies are created by people
with experience.  You must respect their decisions and

== Always consider corporate policies, procedures, and impacts before
implementing changes Consider this situation:

“After arriving at work and logging in to your system, you start looking over
the trouble tickets that are in your queue. While triaging them, you receive a
phone call from Mary in accounting. She cannot log in to the system and has a
meeting in 15 minutes. She is very irate that she cannot access her files for
this meeting and is unable to finish her preparations.”

What’s the first thing you tell her? How do you go about troubleshooting this?
Ensure that you consider all corporate policies, procedures, and impacts prior
to implementing any changes to any system.


=== 1. Identify the problem Identify the Problem

While there are numerous avenues that can be taken for the situation above, the
onus is on you, the technician, to identify the problem. Always remember, users
don’t always tell you everything, especially when emotions are involved and the
possibility of not being prepared for their supervisor is a looming possibility.
Simply calming the user down a little can move the conversation in the right
direction.

ep 1: Ask what is the problem?  Ask the user if they made any changes.  Users
will forget.  Users will lie.  Users will assume that some changes they made
didn’t cause the problem and neglect to mention them.  Remember that most users
are not computer experts.  Check if there have been environmental/infrastructure
changes.   • For example, a site wide network upgrade, or a roll out of a
software update that has created undesired effects.  In larger organizations,
networks, storage, servers, and other infrastructure may be managed by separate
teams, who don’t necessarily communicate with each other when they should.  •
Check the system logs, event viewer, etc. on the user’s computers

==== Question the user and identify user changes to computer and perform backups
before making changes User

Be calm and ask questions to the user while attempting to identify any changes
to the computer that might have been performed such as security patches,
physical movement, etc. These can be simple to correct and have the user back
online in moments. (for example, if the cleaning company physically moved the
computer while cleaning, Mary’s network cable might have come unattached and she
is no longer physically connected to the network.). Be sure to make a backup of
her files prior to attempting any changes on the computer itself just in case
there is a larger issue and her system cannot be recovered.


==== Inquire regarding environmental or infrastructure changes Changes

Consider all the changes that could affect the user (network, computer, power
issues, external connection, user account, etc.) and how those changes can be
involved in the problem. As an example, let’s say the Network team worked over
the weekend performing an upgrade to the infrastructure (switch replacement) and
neglected to plug all the cabling back into the switch (as simple as a cable
falling behind the wiring channel and being missed). Mary might have been the
one missed and now she cannot authenticate to the network, cannot access her
files, cannot print to the network printer, and therefore cannot perform her
morning functions prior to her meeting. These things happen daily and other
teams can be conducting changes without regard to the effect on employees.


==== Review system and application logs Logs

If Mary’s system is on the network but she cannot authenticate, then there are a
variety of methods that can be used to verify and/or troubleshoot her issue
remotely (possibly faster than getting to her work space). Obtaining her
computer name and opening up her event viewer from your workstation can give a
wealth of knowledge into why she cannot authenticate. Obviously, this will not
work if she is physically disconnected from the network (first thing that should
be checked). By opening the Event Viewer or Computer Management on your
workstation, you can choose to “Connect to Another Computer” and enter her
computer name (or IP address, if known) to open her event log. From there,
choose Windows Logs and peruse the list of log files given. Starting with the
Application, look for any errors (noted with a red circle around an exclamation
point) or a warning (noted with a yellow triangle around an exclamation point).
These are indicators that something is amiss and should be investigated further.


=== 2. Establish a theory of probable cause (question the obvious) Develop a
Theory

Keep it simple. Always question the obvious and don’t think something isn’t
relevant. You might think it is common sense to be plugged into the network, but
the user might not know this. Using your questioning ability, develop a theory
(or two) regarding what the problem might be. Another point to remember when
developing your theory is that someone, somewhere has possibly run into this
issue already. The Internet can be your friend or your worst enemy and the
ability to decipher what you glean from the Internet is a valuable resource.

Step 2: Come up with a theory for what caused the issue and perform some
research if necessary Many good sources of information include • Online sites
such as Stack Overflow, Spiceworks, Experts Exchange

==== If necessary, conduct external or internal research based on symptoms ===
3. Test the theory to determine cause Test the Theory

When you have your theory developed, you need to test it. On a time-sensitive
issue, or if you know 100% that the theory is valid, then you can implement it
based upon corporate policies and/or procedures. In a perfect world, you would
be able to replicate the issue within a testing (or laboratory) environment for
verification. This isn’t always the case and you should be ready to test your
theory at a moment’s notice.

Step 3: Test the theory • Determine if the theory is the cause of the problem •
Determine the steps required to solve the problem • If the theory is not the
correct cause of the problem, find a new theory ==== Once the theory is
confirmed, determine the next steps to resolve problem If Theory Is Confirmed

Only test one possible solution at a time and only make one change at a time.
Sounds like a lengthy process? Yes, but if you implement multiple changes in one
process how do you know which one worked and which one didn’t? Remember, keep it
simple. If your theory is confirmed, then you can skip to the plan of action to
implement your theory. If not, then it’s back to testing again. No worries,
proper troubleshooting is an art.


==== If theory is not confirmed re- establish new theory or escalate If Theory
Is Not Confirmed

You’ve tested your theory and the problem still exists. Step back and take a
look at your theory to see what other avenues are available and develop a
working theory regarding the next possible solution.


=== 4. Establish a plan of action to resolve the problem and implement the
solution Plan of Action

Always remember: Your company’s policies and procedures take precedence and
should be in the forefront prior to acting on any plan. The conclusion that you
make might possibly affect the whole company, but that might also be needed
depending on the breath of the issue. Does correcting the issue require downtime
for the company or just a computer? Can that be scheduled around the users
  workday? Does it need to happen immediately? These are all questions that
  should be included in your plan of action.

Step 4: Take Action • Execute the plan to resolve the problem

=== 5. Verify full system functionality and, if applicable, implement preventive
measures Verify

When implemented, does your solution fully rectify the problem and return all
systems to functionality? Does the user have access to all documents and
functions? Is there any way to prevent these issues from arising again?

Step 5: Verify Functionality • Confirm that the system is operational • Confirm
that the measures you took to correct the problem did not create additional
problems • Preventative measures o Educate the user about the cause of the
problem o Educate other users and teams so that they understand the cause of the
problem and the solutions.  This will help them take corrective action in the
future.

=== 6. Document findings, actions, and outcomes Document

Documentation! We can’t express how important it is for issues to be fully
documented. Everything that you have done from the moment the user contacted you
to the moment the user was back online such as indications, findings, actions,
outcomes, scenarios, etc. Your company should have a repository (also known as a
knowledge base) to keep this information safe. It should also be possible to
share among your peers in the event the same type of issue arises in the future.


Step 6: Document Findings • Important to document the findings so that others
can learn • Good to share knowledge with co-workers and with the community • If
you discover a security flaw, you should share it to prevent others from being
harmed

