---
title: 5.2-Given-a-scenario,-troubleshoot-problems-related-to-motherboards,-RAM,-CPUs,-and-power
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 11-01-04
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 5.2-Given-a-scenario,-troubleshoot-problems-related-to-motherboards,-RAM,-CPUs,-and-power
= 5.2 Given a scenario, troubleshoot problems related to motherboards, RAM,
CPUs, and power.




Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! Moving right along, we’re at the fifth out
of five Main Domains! We are also almost finished with the Hardware side of the
CompTIA A+ objectives. In this section, we will mainly focus on troubleshooting
with regards to the devices themselves as well as any issues involving network
connectivity. You really need to have a solid grasp of each of these objectives
in order to have a chance of beating the test. Here they are!

Click here if you want to go back to the A+ 220-1001 Table of Content

== Common symptoms Motherboards, RAM, CPUs, and Power (scenario)

Listed below are some of the more common symptoms of issues in this area. There
are many different situations that can arise when these types of hardware
components start failing. For example, let’s say Jim from the mailroom calls the
help desk and states that his computer is running slow. What are some of the
first questions you should ask him? Starting with the specifications of his
workstation might be good. If he only has 2 Gb of Random Access Memory installed
and is using a memory-intensive program, then that might be a cause for his
slowness.

Common symptoms

When you have a system crashing unexpectedly, it’s good to have a list of things
to check. This list should consist of items known to cause general problems such
as overheating, memory problems, and power problems. The important thing is to
determine what area of the system is likely causing the issue and to
systematically test every possible cause of that issue. This can take seconds or
days to diagnose depending on your methods.

For example, if you know you are having a video problem that appears to be
memory related, what type of memory should you check first? Say the machine is
using RAM Boost. Would you check that first? Probably not.

What about the main system memory? L2? L3? Video memory?

In this example, the smart money would be on the video memory as the culprit.
Check the video memory using the video diagnostics tool from the manufacturer of
the graphics card. If the computer has upgradeable memory, try removing it. The
graphics will be slower, but your problem may disappear.

Use your knowledge of how the system components interact with each other and
compare that with what you see and hear.

Let’s look at the system problems in the order presented in the objectives. The
first problem listed happens to be one of the toughest to diagnose.


=== Unexpected shutdowns Unexpected shutdowns—These can be caused by hardware
that’s failing or by adding new hardware that’s incompatible.

Unexpected shutdowns

This condition can be caused by anything from a bad power supply to system
memory, the processor, or even the motherboard. So if the cause can be basically
anything, where do you start? First, allow the system to cool down to room
temperature, shut it off, and move onto something else until the system
components and heat sinks are cool to the touch.

Now start the machine. If it’s your machine, follow your normal usage pattern
until the crash presents itself again. What were you doing when the crash
occurred? Do the contributing elements appear to be related to system load, a
specific program, or is it simply a matter of operating time? If it’s a user
machine, observe the user’s actions and ask questions.

Unexpected Shutdown Computer Overheating Check to make sure that the fans are
operating and are not obstructed.  Clean the computer and replace the fans if
necessary.
 
Check to make sure that there is enough ventilation for the computer.  Move the
computer to a location with better ventilation.
 
Check to make sure that there is adequate thermal paste between the processor
and the heat sink.
 
Check to make sure that the processor is not overclocked.  Install a liquid
cooling system or additional fans.
 
 
Hardware Error Check the error log to determine if a piece of hardware is
failing.  Replace the failing hardware.
 
 
Software Error Boot the computer to BIOS and leave it there.  If it does not
shut down, then the issue

=== System lockups System lockups—They can be caused by something freezing up
the operating system, such as a bad system or application process, or by using
old software or driver versions. Maxed-out RAM can also cause a lockup.

System lockups

Lockups will be diagnosed much the same way as unexpected shutdowns, however
this time with an emphasis on heat related conditions.

System error in Event Viewer

Here is a typical error shown in the event viewer. After recovery, always try to
use the Event Viewer to find out what caused the problem.

System Lockup (Hang) Hardware error The hardware is damaged or mismatched.
Check to make sure that the hardware is compatible and that updated drivers have
been installed.  Check the error log for details.
 
 
Issue with application The application that you are running may have a bug.
Check for updates to the application.
 
Check with other users to see if they are experiencing the same issue.
 
Check online or with the manufacturer to see if there are solutions to the
error.  
 
 
System is slow Too many applications are open at the same time.
 
It is possible that the computer is slow, and only appears to be hanging.  Check
the quantity of computer resources being utilized.  Wait a few minutes to see if
the computer improve

=== POST code beeps POST code beeps—Errors in the Power On Self Test are
associated with hardware components required to successfully boot the system.
The cause of these could be problems with BIOS configuration or hardware.

POST code beeps

When there is a speaker present on the motherboard, audible codes will sound
which provide high value system failure information, giving the technician good
detail on the system level failures prior to successful POST. This series of
long and short beeps will direct the technician to the component or subsystem
that has failed or is not otherwise present. This is quality information that is
delivered before the screen data is visible.

Unfortunately, these audible codes are always different from one UFEI/BIOS
manufacturer to the next.

Proprietary crash screens (BSOD/pin wheel)

This condition is more often referred to as a “hang” than a crash. During this
condition, a single program or a group of processes will stop responding to
operator input. When diagnosing this condition, always give the program in use a
few seconds to respond. Sometimes it is that simple. If this doesn’t work, use
the task manager to examine the running processes and see which process is “Not
Responding.” Examine the tasks and processes involved since it’s often more than
one. Once identified, end the offending tasks.

POST Code Beep Hardware failure POST = Power On Self Test When the computer
powers on, it will check all the hardware for errors.  If it detects an error,
it will produce a series of beeps.  The number of beeps corresponds to the type
of error.  Check with the manufacturer to see what error corresponds to the beep
sequence and correct it.
 

=== Blank screen on bootup Blank screen on bootup—BIOS or CMOS battery issues
can be the root of this problem. Also check video signals.

Blank screen on bootup

This condition has several accompanying conditions, a couple of which are shown
below.

System boots to BSOD – Blue Screen of Death

BSOD – Blue Screen of Death

Troubleshoot by looking up the STOP: error code displayed on the BSOD and follow
the instructions if relevant. These codes tend to be generic. Sometimes, there
may be several related to the same incident, as you can see in the image. You
may have to gather clues from each instance.

Black error screen on boot

Sometimes you will receive a black screen with a short “Humane” message such as
“PCI Wireless card not connecting. Check the connections.” Albeit rare, these
messages do exist. These messages will show when there is enough information
presented to the bootloader for it to provide specifically actionable feedback
to the user. The best examples of this are “Boot to Safe Mode” and “Boot to Last
Known Good Configuration.”

Blank Screen on Bootup Hardware failure (graphics) If the computer has onboard
graphics and dedicated graphics, move the display cable to a different graphics
port or to a different graphics card.
 
Reseat the graphics card in the motherboard or replace the graphics card.
 
 
Display issue Check to make sure that the display is functioning.  Try the
display with a functioning video
 
Software issue If the display is blank even during the BIOS POST, then the issue
is likely with the display or the graphics card/motherboard If the display is
blank after the BIOS loads, it is likely an issue with the operating system.
Attempt to boot into safe mode, disable unnecessary devices, and reinstall the
graphics drivers.
 
=== BIOS time and setting resets BIOS time and setting resets—These indicate a
problem with the BIOS CMOS battery.

BIOS time and settings resets

Many Startup errors can be attributed to power settings. One classic example of
this is when your system date and time reverts back to something irrational.

At this point in your studies, you will have covered the BIOS settings on a PC
and how the BIOS settings are stored, modified, and maintained.

CMOS Battery

When the device is off, the information stored in the BIOS is saved using a
small watch battery, more specifically a 2032 type battery. This is a very power
efficient method of storing essential system configuration information.

BIOS time/Setting Reset CMOS Battery The CMOS battery is dead.  It is not
storing data when the computer is powered off.  Replace the CMOS battery.
 
 
Defective BIOS The BIOS firmware is corrupted.  Update the BIOS firmware.
 
The BIOS is defective.  Replace the system board.
 

=== Attempts to boot to incorrect device Attempts to boot to incorrect
device—This can be caused by a problem with the boot settings within the BIOS.

Attempts to boot to incorrect device

Among the system settings stored on the UEFI/BIOS are the Drive or Hard Disk
information. This includes the Hard Drive boot order. The Drive or Hard Disk
information tells the read/write heads where to look for the boot information as
well as the preferred boot drive selection.

Boot to Incorrect Device Boot Order Not Set Set the boot order correctly.  Check
to see if the boot options allow for legacy or UEF No boot device found The
device that you are trying to boot to does not contain a recognizable operating
system.  Repair or reformat the boot device.
 
Check if the BIOS boot mode is set correctly (legacy or UEFI).  Change it to the
correct setting.
 
=== Continuous reboots Continuous reboots—These could be related to BIOS
problems or OS problems. Problems with a bad driver may also be responsible.

Continuous reboots

Sometimes, a continuous series of reboots will be caused by a failed update or
software corruption. More often than not however, the continuous reboot
situation is usually caused by a failing motherboard component, the processor,
or RAM.

Continuous Reboots Software Issue A software issue is causing the system to
reboot.
 
If an important service stops working, it can force the system to reboot.
Change service setting to not reboot upon termination, then correct the issue
causing the service to fail.
 
Check the error log to see if another issue is causing the reboot and correct
the issue.
 
Reinstall operating system.
 

=== No power No power—Power outlet or power supply issues are usually the cause
of this.

No power

A no power condition is diagnosable by the general lack of noise, fan operation,
drive operation, and lights. Check all of your power sources, wall outlet, and
power strip. If these are okay, check the connections to the motherboard.

No Power No power from outlet Check the power outlet to make sure that it is
providing
 
Failing PSU Check the power supply to make sure that it has not failed.  Replace
the power supply if necessary.  
  
 
Motherboard Check that the power supply is securely connected to the
motherboard.
 
The motherboard may be defective and needs to be replaced.
 
Check that the power buttons on the case are not broken.   Check that the cable
between the power button and the motherboard is secure.
 
=== Overheating Overheating—Problems with the fan, heat sink, dust accumulation,
or something blocking the air circulation can all cause a device to overheat.

Overheating

This is a serious condition with potentially severe consequences. The circuitry
used in today’s components can only tolerate so many extremes of hot or cold.
The greatest danger for circuitry is heat. Fortunately, there are sensors built
into the motherboard that can detect temperature extremes and either issue a
warning or shut down the system.

Causes of overheating can be due to clogged airways where the internal air
circulation is impeded or where there is excessive dust buildup on heat
exchanging surfaces such as the aluminum fins, heat pipes, and fan/cooler
assemblies. When you hear an odd sound coming from the case, it is probably the
heat sensor. The sound will be loud and distinct enough to not to be mistaken
for anything else.

Overheating Not enough cooling Check to make sure that the fans are operating
and are not obstructed.  Clean the computer and replace the fans === Loud noise
Loud noise—This can be a result of loose hardware or issues with the hard drive.

Loud Noise Damage to fan or obstructions in the fan Replace the fan or clean the
fan
 
 
Fan is operating at maximum capacity Computer is overheating, causing the fan to
operate at full speed.  Correct the overheating issue.
 
Temperature sensor is providing inaccurate temperature information.  Adjust or
replace the temperature sensor.
 

=== Intermittent device failure Intermittent device failure—Hardware is usually
responsible for this, in the form of a bad hardware installation, overheated
components, hardware going bad, or hardware not fully connected to motherboard.

Intermittent device failure

An intermittent failure can have a number of causes such as a failing processor,
motherboard, RAM, or bad drivers. Check the processor temperature first and then
run RAM diagnostics.

Click here for A+ Exam Simulations 220-1001 & 220-1002

Intermittent Device Failure Device is failing Replace the device.  If the device
is a hard disk drive, back up the data immediately.
 

=== Fans spin – no power to other devices Fans spin—no power to other
devices—This can be caused by a problem with the motherboard. Also check the
power supply.

Fans spin – no power to other devices

If the fans spin, you know that 12V power is being delivered to the system since
fans and drive motors operate on the 12 Volt power channel. Some of the logic
boards and indicator lights use 5 Volts or 3.3 Volts.

Fans Spin, no power Damage to System board Check the system board to ensure that
it is receiving an adequate power supply.  Replace the system board.  Damage to
PSU Replace the PSU
 
=== Indicator lights Indicator lights—Indicator lights can inform you of certain
problems going on with computer hardware or tell if there is activity or power
coming from a certain connection point. Consult the computer’s documentation for
more information about this.

Indicator Lights
 
Check with the manufacturer to see what the indicator lights mean and take
appropriate action.
 

=== Smoke Smoke—Smoke can indicate a blown capacitor.

Smoke/ Burning smell

Anytime you smell electrical components burning or smell or see smoke, cut the
power to the device(s). This is serious. Get the device outdoors since burning
components can create noxious fumes.

Smoke Short circuit Turn off the computer to avoid further damage Check the
source of the smoke.  Look for burn marks.  A short circuit in the system board
could cause system components to burn.  Check that all cables and connections
are secure.  Replace burned components.  Do not operate a computer that is
producing smoke.
 

=== Burning smell Burning smell—Again, a bad capacitor or a burned-out hardware
piece can be the culprit.

Burning Smell Short circuit Turn off the computer to avoid further damage Check
the source of the smoke.  Look for burn marks.  A short circuit in the system
board could cause system components to burn.  Check that all cables and
connections are secure.  Do not operate a computer that is producing a burning


=== Proprietary crash screens (BSOD/pin wheel) Proprietary crash screens—This
could be caused by faults in the OS system files.

BSOD/Pin Wheel Hardware failure Can ignore unless it becomes a recurring problem
 
Check error log to see if it is caused by a hardware issue.  Replace the
hardware.
 
=== Distended capacitors Distended capacitors—There could be a defective
capacitor from manufacturer or overheating inside the case (bad fan)

Distended capacitors

Capacitors store energy until they are released. When looking at the top of the
capacitor, you can see the pressure relief scores. These cross-shaped
indentations serve to create a weak area that will allow the capacitor to vent
as opposed to exploding. You can see that two of the capacitors have already
failed in the image below.

Failing capacitors

Distended Capacitators
 
A bad capacitator will have a bulge at the top and/or will leak electrolyte.
 
Replace the capacitator or replace the system board that it is on.
 

=== Log entries and error messages Log entries and error messages—Can indicate a
variety of issues from improper credentials to failing hardware.

Log entries and error messages

Always use all the tools available to diagnose and troubleshoot RAM, CPU, and
power problems. If you can access the operating system, you will be able to use
diagnostic tools such as Resource Monitor in order to examine the resource usage
and look for issues that could appear to be related to hardware. You can also
use the Performance Monitor to view and log selected performance data over time
in order to evaluate any changes you make.

Finally, we’ll talk about Event Viewer again. Here you will be able to view
system events and filter them to suit your requirements. Even BSODs will be
tracked here.

Log Entries/Error Messages Numerous causes Read the log to determine the error
message and take




Tools

Multimeter

A Multimeter is a tool capable of measuring a wide range of both positive and
negative electrical values. A Multimeter is used to measure two or more
electrical values, usually two of the following three: voltage (Volts), current
(Amps), and resistance (Ohms). A Multimeter is an essential tool for any
technician. As you spend time in the field, you will realize that the majority
of the problems you will see have their root in electrical power. Invest wisely
in your meter.

You can get a good analog meter and it will serve you well. Consider that these
are fragile instruments and require you to pre-set the value range you expect to
see. If you don’t set the correct value range, you run the risk of damaging the
indicator pin.

There is an easier and more accurate alternative to the analog meter. This is a
digital Multimeter. You will find that most digital Multimeters are auto
ranging, eliminating the potential for damage. In addition, the readings you get
on a digital Multimeter are quite clearly defined as opposed to an analog
Multimeter where an accurate reading depends on the angle you are viewing the
meter from.

Two types of multimeters

Power supply tester

A Power supply tester functions much in the same way as a Multimeter, except it
looks for specific ranges. When using a good power supply tester, the first
thing you will notice is that the values are constantly fluctuating. This is
because most power sources vary within a tolerable percentage throughout the day
due to the load or number of electrical devices being used and the quality of
the incoming power. Please do not call the power utility if you encounter this.
These variances are all kept within tolerance and mainly concern your line
voltage, which will be between 100 to 125 Volts AC. You will see smaller
incremental variations in the measurements of your device. The device will
accept variations and will not warn or alarm you unless the values are
dangerously low or high.

Most people think high voltage is the only thing you have to worry about, but
low voltage can also be problematic for electronics. A good tester will monitor
DC Positive voltages of 12 Volts, 5 Volts, and 3.3 Volts. As you can see in the
digital output of the tester shown in the image below, all the readings are
close but only one is “spot on.” Given these variances, the meter rates each
range as good. There will be connections on the device which accept different
power connectors such as ATX P1, Molex, and SATA.

Power supply tester

Loopback plugs

Loopback plugs are essentially devices that send signals to themselves.
Self-contained, these devices are able to diagnose the sending and receiving of
data on the interface being tested.

Loopback plug

POST Card/ USB

Next, we come to the POST Card/USB. The POST card has been around for a long
time and has been instrumental in diagnosing many hardware failures that occur
before POST completes. USB now makes it possible to perform POST level
diagnostics without opening the case. For (typically) under $10, you can
diagnose all the functions performed during POST and you can use the digital
code sent to see where your problem is.


