= 5.3 Given a scenario, troubleshoot hard drives and RAID arrays.

== Common symptoms Hard Drives and RAID Arrays (scenario)

Clicking, grinding, whining, whirring—these are all indications of failing hard
drives. You won’t hear much from a Solid State Drive (SSD), but you may on a
conventional hard disk drive that spins at an amazing speed (5400 rpm, 7200 rpm,
10000 rpm, and beyond). Below is a small list of indications of a hard drive
beginning to fail (or having failed, in some cases). Server hard drives are a
little more difficult to detect, as they are normally in a server room with
other servers. These rooms can be very noisy. A good practice for server rooms
is to turn off the overhead lights and watch the hard drive indicators. If you
see an amber light, troubleshoot this server a little further. There are various
software platforms that will notify the operator (regarding servers) of the
“health” of the hard drive, but nothing compares to physically checking
periodically.



Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! This objective technically deals with
hardware but as you’ll see, this objective has a software thread running through
it. Don’t ever think about these tests in a strictly hardware or software sense.
We need the software to direct the hardware and the hardware to run the
software. With that established let’s move on. In this objective, we are asked
to troubleshoot hard drives and RAID configurations using the appropriate tools.

We will start out by examining the devices and configurations you are likely to
encounter. We will look at the drive, the configuration possibilities, and the
problems that may occur in the particular configuration.

Hard Drive Issues When diagnosing a hard drive issue • Determine whether you
have a magnetic drive or a solid-state drive.  They function differently.  •
Back up your data.  Most hard drive issues are physical in nature and can’t be
corrected.  The easiest solution is to replace the drive.  As the condition of
the drive deteriorates, data recovery becomes less and less likely. 

=== Read/write failure Read/write failure— This indicates a dying hard drive and
could happen if the read/write head crashes.

Hard Disk Drives (HDD)

This is by far the most recognizable component in modern hardware. It has
however undergone many changes. From the first hard drives to today, the
principle behind a hard drive is the same. A hard drive is a sealed enclosure
that contains several magnetic platters, the read/write heads, and all the
objects that makes operation possible. We’ll look at them closely later.

Currently, a basic hard disk can come in two physical sizes: 2.5” and 3.5”. This
doesn’t sound like a big difference but it is. The smaller size accommodates the
limited space requirements for a portable machine. In addition, the smaller size
reduces the energy requirement which saves valuable battery life.

Let’s now look at the original, commercially available drive which is the
venerable 3.5” magnetic hard drive. This drive has been in use since, believe it
or not, when one could consider 5 MB a sufficient amount of storage! During this
time, a decent system would cost in the neighborhood of $3,000 and you could get
your own copy of the groundbreaking Windows 95! The world has not been the same
since!  Shown below is a great shot of the inner workings of a HDD.

Hard Disk Drive (HDD) internal assembly Inside the Hard Drive

Observe the perfection of the platters. This level of quality and integrity is
essential to ensure reliable performance and long Mean Time Between Failure
(MTBF). MTBF is a numeric representation of the average useful life of a
component, usually measured in tens of thousands of hours. If you are
responsible for the maintenance of hardware at your company, one of the many
essential tools is an external hard disk enclosure. This greatly simplifies the
process of swapping drives in and out of your machine for testing. Furthermore,
it allows you to check the cables and connectors involved in order to validate
them.

Shown below is a 3.5” hard drive that is open and labeled. This image explains
in good detail the components inside the enclosure. We’ll start with the
platters.

Hard Disk (HD) internal details labeled

Platters are very precisely machined and metallically coated. Platters have been
designed to store your data in incredibly small sections called sectors. The
data is read from and written to these sectors through the heads. There is one
head for each platter. The platters are double-sided and can hold different data
on either side. The tolerances in here are quite tight. For example, a drive
having three platters can easily hold 2 TB of data.

The heads are controlled by an actuator which consists of very strong rare earth
magnets which control the actuator arms that hold the heads. The actuator can
precisely move the heads to the right positions and can move them rapidly to the
next location. Now this is where your speed is generated. By combining the
rotational speed of the platters with the ability to read/write efficiently to
either side of any platter, you have the speed and efficiency you need in a hard
drive.

Click here for A+ Exam Simulations 220-1001 & 220-1002

Higher read/write metrics can be achieved by increasing the spindle speed.
Speeds are available from 5,400 RPM to 10,000 RPM and above. There are of course
advantages and disadvantages to everything. Let’s say you want to get more speed
from your laptop by switching to a 10,000 RPM from a 5,400 RPM hard drive. Your
laptop will be faster but your battery will run out twice as fast.  common
symptoms

by far the most common complaint about a working machine is slow performance
which many users tend to blame on the hard drive. others blame the processor or
memory which is a little closer to home.

Can be caused by a software bug, especially if multiple users/hard disk drives
are affected.  Can be caused by damage to the hard disk drive. 
 
=== Slow performance Slow performance— This can indicate that a drive has
already failed or that there are errors on the drive files. There may also be
issues with virtual memory.

slow performance

poor hard drive performance can be blamed on a number of conditions.
fortunately, there are solutions for most of them. to address a slow drive, you
will want to use system tools to define and possibly repair the problem. these
tools include defragmentation.

it is possible for a large file to exist with parts of the file spread all over
the disk. parts of files that are not directly (logically) close to each another
are referred to as fragmented. reading a file that is spread out like this takes
longer. the process of defragmentation (defrag) moves the associated files
together in a contiguous arrangement that is easier and faster for the drive to
read. in addition, free space that is clear is created to write data in. the end
result is faster reads and writes. this should be a once a month preventative
maintenance activity.

next, we’ll move to other drive problems that are associated by their causes or
repairs.

here are some drive errors that can be pinpointed and possibly remedied in the
uefi/bios.

Slow Performance Disk is fragmented.  Run disk defragmenter. 
 
Disk is functioning well, but computer is slow.  Computer may require more
memory or a faster processor. 
 
Replace the SATA cable. 
 

=== Loud clicking noise Loud clicking noise— This can be caused by a mechanical
failure within the drive itself.

Loud Clicking Noise Mechanical problem with the hard disk drive 
 

=== Failure to boot Failure to boot— This failure could be a hardware or
software issue, depending on what stage the boot process gets to before it
happens. Check in BIOS settings for removable devices such as USB drive. Cables
and connectors can also cause the problem.

Failure to Boot Check the boot order in the BIOS, and make sure that the HDD is
set to boot 
 
Make sure that the HDD is connected correctly 
 
Run check disk utility to correct any data errors 
 
Operating system is corrupted.  Reinstall the 


=== Drive not recognized Drive not recognized— Typically, this indicates a
hardware issue with one of the drives. This could be a failed component, a data
corruption issue, or an error in BIOS settings.

Drive not recognized

The drive was not auto-detected and the setup data needs to be configured
manually. Either that has occurred OR the drive has been damaged and cannot be
recognized by the system.

A drive with the wrong file system is connected (for example HFS+ drive
connected to a Windows computer) Check to see that the SATA cable is connected
securely 
 
Check to see that the power cable is connected properly, and that the PSU is
outputting adequate power 
 
Check that the drive is enabled in the BIOS 
 
Check that you have installed the correct drivers for the HDD 
 
=== OS not found OS not found— This message indicates a software issue with
loading the operating system.

OS not found and/or Failure to boot

The drive is improperly set up OR the drive is damaged beyond repair. The
operating system boot files are always located on the outermost track of the
hard drive. This space is reserved for this purpose alone.

OS Not Found Check that you are booting in the correct mode (legacy or UFEI). 
 
Check if there are errors with the operating system.  Insert a bootable
operating system DVD/USB and attempt to correct errors 
 

=== RAID not found RAID not found— This problem could be caused by issues with
the RAID controller or the management software.

RAID not found

This would indicate that the RAID controller has failed OR one or more disks are
misconfigured.

The BIOS might be ignoring the RAID controller.  Check the BIOS to see if RAID
is enabled, or if the computer is set to boot from AHCI. 
 
If the problem is with the RAID itself • Too many RAID disks have failed,
rendering the entire array defective • The RAID volume itself was deleted • The
RAID controller is defective 
 
Log in to the RAID controller (normally it’s possible to access the RAID
controller through an option such as CTRL+J, which is accessible when the
computer is booting).  If you can’t reach the RAID controller, it may have
failed.  • Try reseating the RAID controller.  Replace the controller if appears
to be failing.  • If it’s an integrated controller, the system board may have to
be replaced. 
 
Log in to the controller to see if the virtual disks are present.  If the
virtual disk configuration is lost, but the physical disks are still functional,
you can try to have the controller “detect” the original configuration. 
 
Check inside the controller to see if the disks are functional.  The disks may
not be seated 

=== RAID stops working RAID stops working— This can happen in any RAID array
that does not mirror data. It is usually caused by one of the drives failing.

RAID stops working

This would indicate that one or more of the RAID disks has failed.

One or more disks have failed Typically, an enterprise disk will show an error
light on the front (a red or amber light) indicating that it has failed.  If
you’re using RAID 5, or another redundant RAID version, the failure of a single
disk won’t cause data loss.  But you must replace the disk.  The failure of an
additional disk could result in complete data 

=== Proprietary crash screens (BSOD/pin wheel) Proprietary crash screens
(BSLO/pin wheel)— This is known as the “blue screen of death.” On Windows, this
is a stop error, and on Apple, you will get a continuous pinwheel on the screen.
This typically indicates a fatal failure, such as a CPU dying or a burned-out
part.

Proprietary crash screens (BSOD/pin wheel)

This screen is a death by degrees sort of thing. A BSOD (Blue Screen of Death)
is pretty much what the name implies. By the time you see a BSOD, your system is
already dumping the contents of its memory into a DMP file to be used for
diagnosis. The pinwheel indicates that the program you are running has crashed
and has taken some system functions with it. You may be able to use Task Manager
to recover.  Tools

Here is a look at some of the software tools that can be used to fix any hard
drive issues.

CHKDSK

This command, depending on the parameters used, can check a drive’s overall
condition all the way down to predicting sector failures and getting the data
off of them before there is a problem.

FORMAT

Use format when you are ready to start fresh. Formatting a Windows disk
essentially clears all data from the disk.

File recovery software

If you don’t have it turned on, turn it on now. Windows has the System Restore
feature that will restore your system back to a point before you had a problem.
Also, Windows SFC (System File Checker) will check critical Windows system files
and restore them if necessary.

Bootrec

This command can be used to repair the boot sector of a hard drive including the
files that belong there, such as the MBR and BCD.

Diskpart

This is a command line disk partitioning utility. It can be used to delete all
partitions on a disk or to re-arrange the sizes of partitions provided there is
space. Diskpart on a new drive can create a partition, initialize it, and format
it in preparation for the operating system.

BSOD/Pin Wheel Check the cause of the error and act as appropriate 
 

=== S.M.A.R.T. errors S.M.A.R.T. errors— This stands for Self Monitoring
Analysis and Reporting Technology, and it includes multiple error categories
known as SMART statistics. These can proactively see issues before a drive fails
completely.

Reporting Technology (S.M.A.R.T) tests critical areas of hard drive
functionality quickly during boot to assess drive “health.” S.M.A.R.T. errors
appear when there is plenty of time to act, provided you act fast. This is not
the sort of error that will go away by itself.

SMART Error SMART = Self-Monitoring, Analysis, and Reporting Technology 
 
SMART monitors the drive for errors and predicts hardware failures.  SMART warns
you prior to the failure of the HDD hen seeing a SMART warning, back up data 

