---
title: 5.5-Given-a-scenario,-troubleshoot-common-mobile-device-issues-while-adhering-to-the-appropriate-procedures
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 11-01-04
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 5.5-Given-a-scenario,-troubleshoot-common-mobile-device-issues-while-adhering-to-the-appropriate-procedures
= 5.5 Given a scenario, troubleshoot common mobile device issues while adhering
to the appropriate procedures.

== Common symptoms


Common Mobile Devices (scenario)

Mobile devices are here to stay and are computers just like laptops, desktops,
etc. Only difference is they are smaller, much smaller. Compact and portable,
mobile devices can be much tougher to troubleshoot than conventional devices.
Your company policy will dictate the level of repair you will be required to
perform on these. If the device is personally owned, you might not be required
to touch it.

Common Symptoms

Below are some fairly common symptoms and corresponding questions you should ask
with regard to mobile devices. Ensure you have a very clean workspace and
sufficient lighting prior to undertaking a major repair.

Common symptoms

Many mobile device problems are easy to diagnose and have simple solutions.
Remember, you are smarter than whatever device you are working on.

Mobile devices add a degree of difficulty since everything is smaller and harder
to manage inside the enclosure. Take your time to establish a distraction free
environment to work in. Give yourself a stable clean work area, lay out your
tools and containers for small parts, AND Relax! We’ll start by looking at a
group of related problems and for each problem, we’ll identify the part that
needs repair, replacement, or adjustment.

More often than not, when you encounter a display problem on a mobile device,
diagnosis is usually simple. The repair is another matter.


=== No display No display— Was the device dropped? Does the device power on (as
evidenced by the power indicator, if equipped). Is the device charged?

No display

For this condition, the simplest way to start the laptop and if you are lucky,
resolve the problem is by checking your monitor function key combination.
Determine the keystrokes and cycle through them. If the LCD doesn’t begin to
display, get a known functioning external monitor and connect it. If it works,
you are in great shape!

The battery is dead.  Charge the phone.
 
The screen is broken.  Replace the screen.
 
The screen connector is loose.  Check/reseat the connector between the screen
and the system board.
 
=== Dim display Dim display— Verify display settings are at factory settings
prior to attempting to diagnose this symptom.

Dim display

The worst case scenario for this condition is to replace the backlight but let’s
not get ahead of ourselves. Take a step back and first look for the brightness
controller. Look on the keyboard for a brightness button or slider. If that does
not work, try uninstalling the video drivers in the Device Manager. Check for a
newer version on the driver manufacturer’s website and install it. Lastly, keep
in mind that some laptops are configured to dim the display when the unit is
switched to battery power.

Dim Display The backlight is damaged (if equipped with a backlight).  Replace
the screen and/or backlight.
 
The screen dims automatically in response to low-light conditions.  Clean and/or
replace the light sensor.
 


=== Flickering display Flickering display— Perform a “Hard Reset” (based on the
equipment manufacturer). Is the device warm to the touch? Has it been in the sun
for an extended period of time?

Flickering display

For this problem, perform the steps listed above. Check the display properties
for the Brightness and the Refresh rate and double-check the connections. A low
  refresh rate will cause a flickering display. If the monitor still doesn’t
  work, the issue can either be due to a failed inverter, backlight, or LCD
  panel. Research the costs involved in replacing the components versus the cost
  of replacing the device. It might be time for an upgrade. Shown below is an
  image of a typical inverter board.


Inverter Board

Inverter boards are a relatively easy to access and replace.

Flickering Display Display is defective.  Replace the display.
 
The screen connector is loose.  Check the connector between the screen and the
system board.
 


=== Sticking keys Sticking keys— Verify that no liquid or sticky food products
have come in contact with the device.

Sticking keys

If the keys on your mobile device are sticking, first try blowing compressed
air. If that doesn’t work, use contact cleaner. If that fails, replace the
keyboard.

Sticking Keys The keys are broken.  Replace the keyboard.
 
The keys have debris.  Clean the keyboard.
 


=== Intermittent wireless Intermittent wireless— Where is this occurring? It
could be spotting signals based upon your distance from the tower (or antenna).

Intermittent wireless

Here is another variation of the wireless connectivity problem. In this case,
the wireless connection is unreliable. If you have a wireless locator, move it
around the workspace until you find the best signal. Make sure the location is
practical for the user. Try to find the best balance. Often, repositioning the
lid of a laptop slightly will yield a stronger signal. If there are a few users
having this issue, consider placing a low power WAP at an accessible location.

Intermittent Wireless The wireless antenna is damaged.  Replace the antenna
and/or system board.
 
The phone is in an area with poor wireless signals.  Move to an area with better
wireless



=== Battery not charging Battery not charging— Is it plugged in to a proper
power receptacle? Is the cable frayed or damaged any other way? Is it an
original manufacturer cable or aftermarket cable?

Battery indicator

If you suspect that your battery is not charging, there are simple tests for
this. Check the green light on the AC adapter. Check that the battery is not
overheated. Make sure the battery is not swollen. If these signs are good, let
the battery charge for a reasonable period of time, remove the AC adapter, and
attempt to power up the machine.  If this works, all is well. If this does not,
remove all power from the machine and try using only the AC Adapter. If that
works, you have a dead battery.

The battery is defective.  Replace the battery.
 
The charging port is defective.  Replace the charging port.
 
The cable or power adapter is defective.  Replace the cable or power adapter.
 
You’re using a power adapter that provides less wattage than what the battery
requires.  Swap with an adequate power adapter.
 
=== Ghost cursor/pointer drift Ghost cursor/pointer drift— Is cursor drifting
when you’re not controlling it? Is there another pointing device connected, like
a wireless mouse? Is your mouse or trackpad dirty or physically damaged?

Ghost Cursor cannot display to external monitor

This can be due to potential device driver issues. Toggle through the Function
key for the display. Also when using an external monitor, make sure the cables
you are using are fully functioning.

Ghost Cursor/Pointer Drift The touch screen is cracked.  Replace the touch
screen.
 
The touchpad is damaged.  Replace the touch pad.
 


=== No power No power— Is the battery charged? Does it work when connected to an
AC power supply? Is it stuck in hibernation? Does it respond to a hard reset
procedure?

No power/Battery not charging

Your battery indicator should look something like this. In our example, the
battery is slightly discharged. When the battery is fully charged, the indicator
should read 100%.

No Power The battery is dead.  Charge the battery.  If the battery won’t charge,
replace the battery.
 
The phone is defective.  Replace the phone or the system board.
 


=== Num lock indicator lights

    Num lock indicator lights— Is it a problem or a desired function by the
    user, trying to use the additional number keys? Some portable devices that
    don’t have full keyboard combine key functions. If you can’t find the Num
    Lock key, check if there’s a FN key that would allow engaging the Num Lock
    light.  Is Num Lock enabled by default in BIOS settings?

Num lock indicator lights

It is entirely possible that you will come across a laptop that when some of the
Alpha characters are typed, numbers are displayed instead. This is a design
enhancement enabling those who have a large amount of data to input on a small
laptop to rearrange some of the keys to form a numeric keypad.

This issue often occurs when a user has inadvertently activated the function.
When the function is activated, the Num lock indicator light on the keyboard
will be on. Repeat the keystroke to deactivate the function.

Num lock LED is green

If there is a numeric keypad present, Num Lock will toggle the numeric keypad
between numeric and the other values shown.

Num Lock Indicator Light Num lock key is stuck.  Hold down the num key.
 
Reboot the phone.  Clean the keyboard with an alcohol swab and/or compressed
air.
 


=== No wireless connectivity No wireless connectivity— Is the wireless network
available and working with another wireless device? Is Wi-Fi enabled on the
device? Is Wi-Fi network configured with the right password?

No wireless connectivity

When “No Network” is reported by a user, you have to determine whether it is a
local host, network, internet, or e-mail problem.

The first thing to check is the state of the wireless card on the host as the
user may have inadvertently turned it off. There should be a button or a switch
with an indicator light. When the light is on, open a Command Prompt window and
try pinging a known good host. If it fails, continue your diagnosis process.

Use the information from ipconfig to determine if you have an address assigned
by your DHCP server or an APIPA address. If you have an APIPA address, your
machine didn’t connect. Release and renew your IP address by using the ipconfig
/release command (to clear the IP address data) and the ipconfig /renew command
(to attain a new configuration).

No Wi-Fi The wireless antenna is damaged.  Replace the antenna and/or system
board.  he phone is in an area with poor wireless signals.  Move to an area with
better wireless signals.
 
The phone is set to airplane mode or Wi-Fi is disabled.  Enable Wi-Fi from
settings.
 

=== No Bluetooth connectivity No Bluetooth connectivity— Is Bluetooth enabled on
the device? Is Bluetooth set to discoverable mode? Are the devices within range?
Is the device paired with the right code? Is the Bluetooth device on and is the
battery charged?

No Bluetooth connectivity

Bluetooth is a great method for creating small personal networks. Before you
start an installation, make sure your OS and portable device software is up to
date. For example, if you have a headset that came with a disk, go to the
manufacturer’s website and see if there is newer software. However, do not
install Beta software.

Once properly configured, paired Bluetooth devices seek each other out when
powered up. However in order to communicate with each other, Bluetooth devices
must first need to be paired with each other. This is usually where the problem
comes in as there is no hard and fast standard for connecting Bluetooth devices.
Having the documentation is crucial. Read and understand it before you start.

When pairing Bluetooth devices, you may need to create or use passcodes. The
passcodes used are simply technicalities and are often 0000 or 1111 for example.
There is also important sequencing information that you should consider during
the initial set up such as which device do you turn on first. If you get the
pairing wrong, you may end up locking yourself out of the device which requires
having to uninstall and reinstall the software. Take your time and do it right
the first time. Check the Device Manager for problems before you attempt any
connections to Windows machines.

Click here for A+ Exam Simulations 220-1001 & 220-1002

No Bluetooth The wireless antenna is damaged.  Replace the antenna and/or system
board.
 
The phone is too far from the Bluetooth device that you’re trying to connect to.
Move the phone closer to the Bluetooth device.
 
The Bluetooth device that you’re trying to connect to is defective.  Replace the
device.
 
The phone is set to airplane mode or Bluetooth is disabled.  Enable Bluetooth
from settings.
 


=== Cannot display to external monitor Cannot display to external monitor— Is it
connecting to the monitor with the cable or wirelessly? Is it a good known
cable? Is the external monitor set to show the right source of signal? If it is
a wireless connection, are devices paired? If they cannot pair, do devices
support the same wireless casting protocols and technologies?

Can’t display to external monitor The monitor is not set to the correct input.
Set the monitor to the correct input.
 
The connection cable is defective.  Replace the cable.
 
The output on the phone is not set correctly.  Adjust the settings.
 

=== Touchscreen non-responsive Touchscreen non-responsive— Is the screen dry and
clean? Are you using clean, dry fingers, with no gloves on the screen? Does the
device react to any other hardware inputs or frozen?

Touchscreen non-responsive

A non-responsive touch screen can have a variety of causes. First if you have a
screen protector, remove it and turn the device off. Clean the screen and your
hands thoroughly. Don’t reinstall the screen protector until it can be ruled out
as a problem. Restart the device and recalibrate the screen.

Touchscreen not responsive The touchscreen is damaged or needs to be calibrated.
Calibrate or replace the touchscr



=== Apps not loading Apps not loading— Are there any error messages when loading
the app? Are there enough free system resources to run the app? Is it the latest
version of the app? Does reinstalling the app help?

Apps not loading

If you have a condition where apps will not load or if apps load slowly, first
check the battery. Is the battery overheating? Is the device warm to the touch?
Examine the battery carefully for signs of swelling, which is a dangerous
condition. Remove the battery and allow it to cool to room temperature. If the
battery is swollen replace it immediately. Do not take chances with a swollen
battery. If it is not swollen, reinstall the battery and re-evaluate the
condition.

he version of the app that you’re using has a bug.  Check if other users have
the same issue.  Uninstall and reinstall the app.
 
The app is not compatible with your phone and/or operating system.  Obtain a
phone that is compatible with your app, or obtain an app version that is
compatible with your phone.
 
The device’s operating is corrupted.  Reformat the device.
 
=== Slow performance Slow performance— Are there many apps or processes that run
at the same time? Are there enough free system resources? Does the hardware meet
the system requirements of the software running?

Slow performance

This condition is related to heat and also with having too many apps open. Start
your evaluation by feeling the temperature of the device in areas not related to
the battery. Consult your documentation for specific heat related remedies. This
condition could be due to a combination of too many apps opened which exhausts
the system resources and generates unwanted heat. Shut the device down and let
it cool. Restart the device and use your application manager to see exactly what
gets loaded at startup. Make adjustments to the apps to lower resource usage and
monitor the device for any recurrence of the heat issue. If the steps above
don’t work, you can always refresh the device back to its factory settings using
the key combination from the manufacturer.

Slow Performance The phone is overloaded.  Reboot the phone.  Uninstall or
disable unnecessary applications.  Obtain to a more powerful phone.
 


=== Unable to decrypt email Unable to decrypt email— Is S/MIME enabled on the
device? Can this email be successfully decrypted on another device?

Unable to decrypt email

Most problems of this type are caused by a corrupted public key. Public keys are
created and shared with people encrypted email is received from. If you can’t
decrypt email at all, focus on your machine as your public key is corrupt. You
should recreate your public key and share it with your confidential contacts.

Unable to decrypt email The user’s password has changed or his account has been
disabled.  Check to make sure that the user can log in to his e-mail via another
method.
 
Remove the e-mail account and add it back to the phone.
 


=== Extremely short battery life Extremely short battery life— Is the battery
swollen or very hot? Is the battery old? Is the right charged being used to
charge the battery? Are there many apps and processes running on the device?

Short Battery Life The battery is defective and should be replaced.
 
The phone is overloaded, causing it to drain the battery quickly.  Reduce the
number of open applications.
 

=== Overheating Overheating— Are there many apps and processes running on the
device? Is there dust or debris blocking the cooling vents? Is the device in
direct sunlight?

Overheating The phone is overloaded.  Uninstall unnecessary The phone is being
kept in an environment where it is prone to overheating.  Move to a better
environment.
 
=== Frozen system

    Frozen System— Are there many apps and processes running on the device? Is
    it low on battery? Is it very hot? Does it respond to a hard reset
    procedure?

Frozen system

When we discuss a “Frozen” system, we are usually talking about a smartphone or
tablet. A system lockup or freeze cannot be recovered and your only option is to
perform a soft reboot. Each manufacturer has a different method for rebooting
from a lockup so follow the manufacturer’s instructions.

Frozen The phone is overloaded.  Reboot the phone.  Uninstall or disable
unnecessary applications.  Obtain to a more powerful phone.
 

=== No sound from speakers

    No sound from speakers— Is the volume level set not too low and not muted?
    Is there a hardware mute switch on the device? Is it paired with a Bluetooth
    speaker or have headphones connected?

No sound from speakers

Sound issues on a mobile device can either be hardware or software related.
First, check the software. The user may have turned down the volume or muted the
speakers. Check the Sound device in the Device Manager and see if it has any
problems. Check the drivers and update them.

If all the above fail, try the Hardware Troubleshooter in the Control Panel. If
all these methods fail, plug in a set of headphones or external speakers. If
they don’t work, you may have a hardware problem.

No sound The volume is disabled.  Unmute the phone.
 
The speakers are damaged.  Replace the speakers.
 
The phone is set to output sound to another audio device such as Bluetooth
speakers.  Switch to the correct audio device.
 


=== GPS not functioning GPS not functioning— Are you located outside a building
with a clear view of the sky? Does restarting the device help? Are location
services enabled in the device settings?

GPS not functioning

GPS (Global Positioning System) uses satellites in geostationary or
geosynchronous orbit around the earth to calculate precise locations on the
planet. There are over 30 satellites orbiting the Earth, transmitting time
signatures of the highest accuracy. In order to enable GPS functionality,
devices such as laptops or smartphones have GPS modules attached to them.

The GPS signal is low power, does not tolerate interference, and needs an
unobstructed view of the sky. In order to accurately find its position on Earth,
the GPS module must be able to “see” 4 satellites. The module then uses the
precise time signatures from those satellites and uses the differences in
reception to locate its position. The biggest problems with GPS are due to
obstruction of the sky and RF interference.

No GPS The GPS antenna is damaged.  Replace the GPS antenna or the system board.
 
The GPS is not available in the area where the phone is located.
 

=== Swollen battery Swollen battery— Is it an old or low quality replacement
battery? Was the right charger used to charge it?

Swollen battery The battery is defective.  Replace the ba



== Disassembling processes for proper reassembly To Disassemble

Disassembling computer systems, large and small, should be a meticulous
undertaking. Documentation is key. Each part has a specific purpose and can be
disastrous if not placed back in its original function. The manufacturer
normally has diagrams to refer to online.

Disassembling processes for proper re-assembly

Disassembling a laptop can be one of your greatest challenges unless you adhere
to a few simple steps. First and foremost, don’t even touch the laptop unless
you have the proper documentation from the manufacturer and you’re wearing a
ground strap. Remove all power sources from the unit including the battery and
the AC adapter. Next, follow the listed steps.

e Procedures for a Mobile Device • If this is the first phone that you have
repaired, you’ll probably mess it up.  • Ask yourself if the component is held
in by screws or by adhesive.  Increasingly, phone components are held in with
adhesive, which is much more difficult to remove.  o Consider calling in an
expert.  In any large city, there are at least 100 cell phone repair shops full
of experts who know how to fix phones.  o If you choose to do it yourself, and
it is a sensitive application, consider practising on some donor phones before
working on the customer’s device.  • Watch a video of the assembly and
disassembly procedure.  • Make sure that you have all of the correct components
and tools.  • Use a mat or a piece of paper with a grid to mark each screw as
you remove it.  That way,

=== Document and label cable and screw locations Document and label— It is
important to document what you are doing as you are taking apart a mobile
device. You should include locations of all parts, and label any pieces that you
remove. These tiny parts are typically very easy to remove, but get complex and
confusing when it comes to reassembling everything. You could even take
pictures, if it will help you remember exactly where a part goes. When handling
small screws, it is best to be on a workbench with a raised lip and part
particular attention to screw sizes, as the wrong screw size could crack a
display screen.

Document and label cable and screw locations

Take pictures if you can.

=== Organize parts

    Organize— Many professionals make use of organization bins to sort and store
    all of the various parts when disassembling a mobile device. This is another
    way to help keep you organized and help you remember the location of each
    part.

Organize parts

There are several ways to organize the removed parts. You can take notes and
tape the screws to a piece of paper. You can use the repair manual and tape the
screws next to the appropriate instructions. You can also label the removed
parts and organize them using an empty egg carton or pill box.

=== Refer to manufacturer resources Refer to resources— If you have trouble
knowing exactly what to take apart, or you would just like some extra
information, always feel free to consult the manufacturer’s documentation. This
can be paper documentation or gleaned online from their website.

Refer to manufacturer resources

Always check the diagrams or pictures in the repair manual. Follow all
instructions to the letter.


=== Use appropriate hand tools Tools— Mobile devices often have their own
specialized set of tools with which to work. These tools are especially
important, as they are made specifically for the mobile equipment. Standard
tools may not work or they may damage the delicate mobile parts.


Use appropriate hand tools

You will find different screw sizes, lengths, and screw head configurations
inside a laptop. These include different sized Phillip’s heads, flat heads, and
Torx heads. Your repair manual will have these screw head configurations clearly
labeled. Use the right tool for the job or damage to the screw may result.
