= 5.6 Given a scenario, troubleshoot printers.

== Common symptoms


Printers (scenario)

Given a scenario, you’ll need to be able to troubleshoot printers. Although a
lot of information is being passed digitally, printers still have their uses in
offices and IT professionals need to know their way around troubleshooting and
maintaining them. Inkjet and laser are the most common printer types in offices.
Other less common printer types are impact and thermal. Printers can be either
directly connected to a computer for local use, or shared over a network.
Common Symptoms

Below are some fairly common symptoms, corresponding troubleshooting steps, and
questions you should ask with regard to printers and printing issues.

Common Printer Issues Think about how paper travels through the printer, from
the paper tray to the output basket.  Then think about the locations in the
printer where the print quality could be affected.  Check the manufacturer’s
maintenance manual for the printer. 

=== Streaks Streaks— These are usually caused by ink residue. Follow the
printer’s cleaning procedure. This may include physical cleaning of internal
parts of a printer, or a cleaning process that can be triggered by the printer’s
software. Try printing a test page—are there streaks, too? Sometimes streaks may
be caused by the scanning part of a copier, not being a printing problem.

The print head is dirty or blocked.  Clean the printer.  Run a cleaning page
through the printer. 
 
=== Faded prints Faded prints— Check toner or ink levels. Try replacing the
cartridges with new ones, of known good quality. Check printing settings. Are
there any ink saving settings enabled that may reduce the amount of ink or toner
used?

Faded Prints 
 
The printer is low on toner.  Change the toner cartridge. 
 
The printer’s High Voltage Power Supply is damaged.  Change the power supply. 
 
The printer is set to print on “economical” mode.  Change the mode. 

=== Ghost images Ghost images— This may happen only on laser printers due to
self-cleaning problem. Try replacing the drum.

Ghost Images 
 
 
The previous print job is stuck to the imaging drum.  The imaging drum has
reached the end of its life and should be replaced. 
 
The previous print job is stuck to the fuser.  The fuser should be replaced. 

=== Toner not fused to the paper Toner not fused to the paper— This may only
happen on laser printers due to a fuser problem. Try replacing the fusing roller
or the fuser lamp.

Toner not Fusing The fuser is damaged or not hot enough.  Adjust the fuser
settings or replace the fuser.  Check that the fuser is connected c f the toner
is not fusing, prints appear normal, but the toner can be easily rubbed off.
=== Creased paper Creased paper— Paper gets creased due to a feeding problem.
Follow the same troubleshooting steps as for a paper jam.

Creased Paper 
 
There is a paper jam in the printer or damage to one of the rollers.  Replace
the rollers. 

=== Paper not feeding Paper not feeding— Follow the same troubleshooting steps
as for a paper jam.

Paper Not Feeding The wrong paper is inserted.  Insert the correct type of
paper. 
 
Adjust the paper tray to accommodate the paper size. 
 
The pick-up rollers are worn.  Replace the rollers. 
 

=== Paper jam Paper jam— There are many reasons to frequent or sporadic paper
jams. The reasons can be categorized as related to the paper or to the printer
hardware. Ensure that the paper size and weight used are as recommended by the
printer’s manufacturer. Try using a new, dry pack of good quality paper. Don’t
load too much paper at once. Bend the stack of paper to separate sheets before
loading. If the problem is not with the paper, then the printer hardware needs
to be checked. Check to see if the printer has been maintained per the
manufacturer’s recommendations. Some printers have a page counter and
recommendations on replacing specific internal parts to prevent paper jams. If
the jams are very frequent, check for broken parts in the feeding path.

Paper Jam Debris in the printer.  Clean the printer. 
 
The rollers or fuser are worn.  Replace the rollers 


=== No connectivity No connectivity— For a printer that is directly connected to
the computer you’re using to print: is it turned on? Is it connected correctly
with a good cable? Have the drivers been installed? For a printer on a network:
follow network troubleshooting steps. Is the printer connected to the network,
can it be reached by other computers on the same network? Have the drivers been
installed on the computer?

The printer is not connected to the USB or internet.  Check the connection
and/or replace the paper. 
 
Check the DHCP, Static IP, or Wi-Fi settings. 
 
=== Garbled characters on paper Garbled characters on paper— This may mean a
software or connection issue. Are correct drivers installed? Is the printer
connected firmly with a good cable? Is there enough RAM free on the printer?

Garbled Characters 
 
Determine if the issue is caused by the printer or by the computer.  Try
printing a configuration page from the menu.  If the configuration is good, then
the issue is likely with the computer.  Update the drivers on the computer. 
 
If the configuration is bad, then the issue is likely with the printer.  Check
if the printer is connected to a good quality power supply and replace the toner
  cartridge. 
 

=== Vertical lines on page Vertical lines on page— Similar to streaks
troubleshooting, these may be caused by toner or ink residue. Ensure that the
internals are clean and the cartridge is not leaking.

Vertical Lines 
 
Toner is not being deposited on the page.  Replace the toner cartridge, imaging
drum and developer unit. 

Color Registration Out of Alignment This occurs with printers that have multiple
colors.  The different colored toner imaging drums/toner cartridges are not
aligned.  Align 


=== Backed-up print queue Backed-up print queue— Is the printer jammed or
doesn’t have paper or ink to print? This may be a spooler issue. Does restarting
the printer or the printing computer clear the queue?

The print queue is full of documents, but not enough resources are available.
Check that the correct size and type of paper is loaded. 
 
Too many users are printing at the same time.  Consider installing additional
printers. 
 
=== Low memory errors Low memory errors— Printer has internal memory to store
and manage the print jobs. Is the printing document very large, has a lot of
pages, or high-resolution graphics? Try reducing the source file. Some printers
may allow increasing memory by adding the hardware RAM internally.

Low Memory The printer is low on memory.  There are too many documents being
printed.  Add more memory or consider installing additional printers. 
 
Install a print server or additional memory to queue all of the jobs. 
 

=== Access denied Access denied— Does the computer user have the system
permissions to print? Try printing as a different user, and modify the user
permissions to allow printing.

Access Denied The user doesn’t have permission to print.  This may be controlled
by the printer or by the print server.  Provide the user with permission. 
 

=== Printer will not print Printer will not print— Check printer power, status
messages, connectivity. If everything seems right, but it wouldn’t print, check
the spooler service on the printing computer. Does restarting the spooler
service help? Disable the spooler to print directly to printer.

Won’t Print Uninstall and reinstall the printer.  Confirm that the correct
driver is installed and that you can connect to the printer. 
 

=== Color prints in wrong print color Color prints in wrong color— Color
printers use base colors to create shades of all other colors. Wrong color is
usually due to one of the ink or toner cartridges being empty or malfunctioning.
Print a test page to rule out software configuration issue. Replace the
cartridges with known good ones.

Color Prints in Wrong Print Color The wrong colored toner or ink cartridges are
installed.  This is normally not an issue because printers with multiple colors
have unique shapes for each cartridge.  
 
=== Unable to install printer Unable to install printer— Are you using the
correct drivers for your operating system? Consult with the printer’s
documentation or support website to check for current, compatible drivers.

Unable to Install Printer The printer is not accessible.  Check that the printer
is connected to the correct network. 
 
The driver is not compatible with the operating system.  Check that the correct
driver is installed. 
 

=== Error codes Error codes— Error codes would direct you to the issue, usually
with paper, ink or toner, or memory. Troubleshoot these errors accordingly.

Error Codes There are hundreds of error codes.  Look up the error code in the
maintenance manual to determine the affected component.  Follow the manual’s
procedure for troubleshooting and/or replacing the part. 
 

=== Printing blank pages Printing blank pages— This is usually an ink or toner
quantity or quality issue. Rule out a software configuration issue by printing a
test page. Check if the cartridges are not empty and not dried out due to lack
of use. Replace with new, good cartridges.

Blank Pages The toner or ink is low.  Replace the toner or ink. 
 
The developer unit is damaged.  Replace the developer unit. 
 

=== No image on printer display No image on printer display— Is the printed
connected to a good power source and turned on? Try reconnecting the power. If
there’s still no display on the printer’s LCD screen, the screen or the printer
may be malfunctioning.


No Image on Printer Display The printer is powered off.  Replace the printer. 
 
The display is damaged or disconnected.  





    Multiple failed jobs in logs— Are there specific errors on these jobs that
    can direct to the troubleshooting steps (such as toner, paper, access
    issues)? This may be due to spooler issues. Restart the spooler service. Try
    disabling spooler and print directly to the printer, with no queueing.

Overview of printer types and how they function

Troubleshooting printer problems is infinitely easer if you know how printers
should function under normal conditions. Let’s start out by looking at the most
common printer found in SOHOs: The inkjet.

A fast and efficient printer, the inkjet, or bubble jet, can produce picture
quality images, plaintext, and everything in-between. These printers are capable
of duplexing (printing on both sides of the paper) and are capable of creating
prints from the smallest wallet sized photo to full size legal documents.
Interestingly, these printers are constantly getting features added. You can
find an all-in one printer with full printing capabilities, Fax, Scanner,
Bluetooth, and Wi-Fi or Gigabit for under $100! However, there is a slight
drawback as ink costs $99. Do your homework before buying! Compare the prices of
the consumables, such as the ink, versus the cost of the unit.

So how does it work? Let’s consider the example of a networked inkjet printer
that is shared with everyone without restriction.

Start by installing the printer on your workstation. Make sure you have the
exact make and model number of the printer. This is imperative. If you can’t
find the correct printer drivers in Windows’ driver list, go to the
manufacturer’s website and download the right one. A generic device driver will
give you generic results, will possibly miss out on features, and in the worst
case will give no connection.

A networked printer can stand alone or it can be shared by a workstation on the
network. Remember that the printer must be turned on and shared for either of
these two options to work. Sharing requires the most attention.

You must give permission to each user and also specify which of the printer’s
capabilities each user can utilize. This is where Groups comes in handy. You
could manually assign the correct capabilities for each user, or you can assign
one set of permissions and capabilities to the PrintOps group and add the users
in the PERFORMANCE group to it.

New Object – PrintOps

Using this tool, you can setup 20 computers in one go! Be cognizant of the
group’s capabilities and more importantly, the impact of any group changes on
other groups. This could be significant. For example, the PrintOps group is a
global Security group.

Printer Operator Properties

Alright, let’s get this A+ sub-objective 5.6 out of the way by addressing
specific cases. These objectives are fundamentally just a list of knowledge
points that you are responsible for and don’t follow any particular logical
order. This will make them seem jumpy because they are! We’ll smooth them out as
much as possible while still trying to deliver the relevant content.  The Laser
Printing Process

The Laser printing process is a continuous, 7-step cyclical process in which
each step is occurring simultaneously. The Laser Printing Process is fascinating
and efficient.

First, a piece of paper is drawn into the printer while the drum is charged.
This is called the Conditioning phase.

Laser printing process

A uniform -600 volt charge is applied to the image drum which is constantly
rotating. Next, the image to be printed is written onto the drum. This is
referred to as exposing or writing. Exposing takes place when a focused laser
beam is scanned across the entire drum. The laser turns on and off rapidly,
discharging some areas of the drum while retaining others. This creates the
image on the drum.

At this point, the image is present but still invisible. Next in the cycle is
the toner hopper, where the toner (ink) is drawn onto the areas of the drum that
were discharged earlier. These areas are very narrow strips and do not look like
anything until a few dozen of them are exposed. However, that never happens.

After the toner is attracted to the drum, it is immediately pulled onto the
paper by the transfer corona. The transfer corona is positioned so that the
paper travels between the drum (now coated with toner) and the corona wire. Pure
electrical energy acts as the physical force which moves the toner from the
imaging drum to the paper. Once the toner is on the paper, the toner needs to be
“fixed” or melted onto the paper. This requires that the paper is heated to a
temperature of around 400 degrees. The heat required is determined by the
printer, toner, and paper manufacturers. The temperature should never be
exceeded. However, the temperature must be hot enough to melt the toner. Signs
of under heated toner or problems with the fuser (fusing corona) are streaky,
dusty toner. After this, the cleaning phase takes place and any residual toner
is removed.

When a laser printing cycle begins, a single piece of paper is drawn into the
printer. A separator pad is used to ensure that only one sheet of paper is
picked up. A failure here can cause paper jams or creased/torn paper.

Click here for more info about our A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001
& 220-1002 Laser Printer

A Laser printer consists of two main components, the printer and the cartridge.
The cartridge contains all of the high wear items which include the toner,
photosensitive drum, charging corona, and the excess toner hopper.

Here are the seven steps of laser printing.

    Processing – The digitized image is prepared to be transferred to the
    photosensitive drum.  Charging – The imaging drum is charged by the charging
    corona wire to a uniform voltage of greater than -600 VDC. This voltage
    repulses all toner on drum.  Exposing – A laser beam is scanned across the
    drum, discharging all areas of exposure. This drains the charge off of the
    drum. All points exposed to the laser will now attract toner.  Developing –
    Due to the difference in electrical potential, toner is attracted to the
    areas discharged by the laser and repulsed by the charged areas.
    Transferring – A transfer corona, carrying a positive charge and positioned
    permanently beneath the paper path, draws the negatively charged from the
    drum onto the paper.  Fusing – A fusing roller placed beneath the paper is
    heated to above 400 degrees. This melts the toner powder into the final
    image.  Cleaning – Any remaining static voltage on the paper is dissipated
    and the drum is exposed to an erase lamp which returns it to a neutral
    charge.

Inkjet Printer

The Inkjet process consists of one or more ink cartridges that contain focused
nozzles. When not in use, these cartridges are positioned in a maintenance
station to keep the nozzles free from dust. Inkjets operate by scanning the
print heads across the paper and spraying small focused bubbles of ink onto the
paper. Inkjet printers cost less to purchase than laser printers but have a
higher maintenance cost.

Printer types Dot Matrix Printers

A dot matrix printer operates on the impact principle. This printer will eject
and return a small cluster of individual rods onto a ribbon that is damp with
ink, which leaves a dot on the paper. After several passes of the ink head, a
readable image made up of these dots is produced. This is the only printer type
capable of producing images on multi-sheet carbon paper.

Dot matrix printers are quite noisy. Special paper, that has a series of holes
along each side allowing it to be “tractor fed,” is used for these printers.
Thermal printers

This printer type uses a specially treated paper that is heat sensitive. The
print heads are heated to the specified temperature and contact the paper. The
chemicals on the paper react to the heated print head, leaving a black mark at
the point of contact.  Common symptoms

Here are some of the common problems you will encounter in the field when
supporting printers. Please keep in mind that this stuff could very well be on
the test too! Here is a breakdown.

This first set of problems will be most common on a laser printer.

Steaks on a laser printer will appear as vertical blank areas which run
consistently down the length of the page. The most probable cause is that the
toner is not even in the cartridge. This is easily fixed (temporarily) by
shaking the cartridge and evenly distributing the toner. You should prepare to
replace the cartridge.. Faded prints indicate a failing charging corona which
requires cartridge replacement to fix. Ghosting of images on the print can also
be repaired by replacing the cartridge. In this case, it’s important to note
that the circumference of the image drum is considerably less that the length of
the paper. An imaging drum will rotate almost 10 times in order to print a
single page. This makes the cleaning process crucial. Check the erase lamps
while you are working. Print blank pages to check the erase lamps.

Moving on, if you have laser output that is not fused, is sandy, or is gritty to
the touch, this indicates a failed fuser. Order and replace.

If you see a memory error when printing, your image is too large (too much data)
for the printer’s buffer. This is currently less of a problem but it still
  happens. Reduce the size of the image. For example, reduce the pixel
  requirement from 1200dpi to 600dpi. Reduce the load on the printer until you
  can diagnose it.

If your printer is not printing, printing garbage, or printing wrong colors,
perform the following actions:

    Make sure you are connected to the printer.  Make sure the printer is
    online.  Make sure the right print drivers are installed.  Print a test page
    from your workstation to the printer.  Print a self-test page from the
    printer console and compare it with a machine test.  Run the printer set-up
    alignment software.

If the print queue is jammed and if the printer will not print, clear all the
items from the queue.

This is a personal bit of observation. Person 1 can’t print so they tell Person
2 who sends a second job. It doesn’t work so they both try again. As news of the
problem spreads down the aisle, each person tries once or twice and confirms the
issue. Person 1 calls the helpdesk and tries to print while on the phone. Person
2 sees Person 1 on the phone, tries to print, and asks to be included on the
ticket. This repeats until 50 print jobs are queued and before the help desk can
see and clear the queue.

Moving on, here are some more issues that can be fixed with the same general
solution provided the printer is online and operational.

Errors such as Access denied, Unable to install printer, and errors on the local
machine can all be traced to the permissions. Try accessing the machine the
printer is attached to. If the printer is standalone, check the Print Operators
group and make sure you are an area member with correct permissions. On the
printer’s host, check your accessibility to the machine. The printer will be
visible. Try a test page from there and evaluate the results.  
