---
title: 5.7-Given-a-scenario,-troubleshoot-common-wired-and-wireless-network-problems
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-55
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 5.7-Given-a-scenario,-troubleshoot-common-wired-and-wireless-network-problems
= 5.7 Given a scenario, troubleshoot common wired and wireless network problems.

== Common symptoms


Wired and Wireless Networks (scenario)

Given a scenario, you will need to troubleshoot common wired and wireless
network problems. Networks are in the heart of today’s computing. A failure in
network access has a good chance of preventing users from doing their work, or
information from being accessed. It needs to be addressed effectively.  Common
Symptoms

Below are some fairly common symptoms and corresponding troubleshooting steps
and questions you should ask with regard to networking and connectivity issues.


Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! Today we will look at the connectivity of
wired and wireless networks. What are some of the more common connectivity
issues? What can we do to address them?

Common Symptoms

Troubleshooting Wi-Fi/Network • There are 7 layers in the OSI Network model •
When troubleshooting a network issue, you should begin troubleshooting at Layer
1 and work your way up to Layer 7, until you have resolved the issue.  Layer 1
Physical Layer This layer deals with physical connections.
 
Are the devices physically connected to each other?  Test the ethernet to make
sure that the continuity is good on all pairs.  Check that all the devices are
powered on correctly.  Check that the network interface cards are functioning.
 
Layer 2 Data Link Layer This layer deals with Ethernet and Point to Point
Protocols between two devices
 
A cable with good continuity may still have interference from electrical or
other sources.
 
Check that the interfaces are connected at the correct speed (10, 100, 1000,
etc.) and the correct duplex (full duplex or half duplex).  Both devices should
have the same speed and duplex settings.  Remember that a network interface’s
speed and duplex could be set manually or automatically.
 
Check that the device is connected in the correct VLAN.
 
Layer 3 Network Layer This layer contains the IPv4 and IPv6 Protocols heck that
all the devices have the correct IP addresses, gateway addresses, and DNS
servers
 
Check other routing protocols to make sure that they are connected correctly
 
Check that the device has received an address over DHCP
 
Check that nothing is being blocked by a firewall
 
Layer 4 Transport Layer This layer delivers data from the network card to the
application
 
Check that the applications are configured correctly, and with the correct port
number
 
Check that nothing is being blocked by firewalls or antivirus programs
 
Layer 5 Session Layer The session layer involves authentication
 
Check that the applications are configured correctly and that the correct
credentials (URLs, usernames, passwords, certificates, etc.) have been entered
into the applications
 
Layer 6 Presentation Layer Sometimes the presentation layer and application
layers are combined
 
The presentation layer is responsible for formatting received information and
sending it Check that the application is configured correctly
 
Layer 7 Application Layer The application layer is the user interface that
displays received information to the user
 
Check that the application is configured

=== Limited connectivity Limited Connectivity

Limited connectivity is a state when a device is connected to the network, but
can’t reach outside of the local network. Even some local resources may be not
reachable.

For Wi-Fi networks, this is frequently caused by incorrect password. Try
reconfiguring the Wi-Fi connection with the correct password.

For wired Ethernet networks, the issue is usually due to the device not getting
an IP address from the DHCP server. Or if it has a static IP address that
doesn’t match the router network configuration. Does the device have IP address
configured manually? Is the default gateway configured correctly and matches the
IP address of the router on the network? For dynamic IP addresses, does the
device get an IP address assigned? Is it in valid range on the same network as
the router on the network?

Limited & Local Connectivity

Local connectivity and intermittent connectivity can all be addressed with the
same basic troubleshooting methods. For the purposes of the exam objectives,
network shares, printers, and email are considered to be local resources.

Begin by trying to access a known working address on your local network. This
will help to determine whether your problem is with the physical network or the
programs and protocols being used. If your connection is wired, check the
indicator status to see if the lights are on and flickering.

Next, check the neighboring computers for signs of the same problem. Determine
whether you have a problem with one PC or 20 PCs. The troubleshooting methods
for each case will be different.

If you are able to access some but not all of the available network resources,
determine the level of accessibility and see if there is a pattern. Perhaps a
bad network segment or a device can be isolated as the point of failure.

Once you have narrowed down the problem to a specific area in your network, rule
out issues with your internet service provider and the installed equipment.

Check the IP address assigned to the device. If it starts with 169.254.xxx.xxx,
you know it has been assigned an APIPA address which prevents it from
communicating with the DHCP server.

To summarize:

1) Check lights on the NIC and devices.
2) Test or swap out the Ethernet cable.
3) Check switches and indicator lights on wireless connections.
4) For wireless connections, consider radio power, frequency, and line of sight
   issues.
5) Decide if you want to use the command line interface or GUI based
   diagnostics. For this example, let’s do the command line first. Open a
   command prompt by clicking the command prompt icon or typing cmd in the
   search window.
6) Let’s use a few commands and varieties to diagnose the NIC and establish its
   relative location. First, let’s check that the NIC, its drivers, and the
   protocol stack are functioning properly. Ping the localhost by name (ping
   localhost) and number (ping 127.0.0.1). Next, ping a common internet address.
   Most DNS servers will have looked up Google recently. Google’s IP address is
   surprisingly simple (8.8.8.8). Ping Google to validate connectivity.

The device is not able to reach the internet.
 
If the device is set to DHCP, this issue is typically associated with an
APIPA/link local address.  If the device is not able to reach a DHCP server,
check that the DHCP server is configured.
 
If the device is set to static, ensure that the static IP address is in the
correct subnet and has the correct gateway.
 
Check that the DNS servers are correct and reachable.  Check that no firewall is
blocking the connection.
 
Check that the network is connected to the internet.  Confirm that the modem or
WAN connection is operating correctly.
 
=== Unavailable resources Unavailable Resources

Sometimes you can access some resources on the network, but not others. For
example, you can print to your office printer, but can’t access the Internet. Or
you can access the web pages, but not your email.

Unavailable resources

In addition to the local resources listed above, Internet connectivity can also
be impacted by the same issues. If you can’t connect to your local network, your
connection to the Internet can be impacted.

Unavailable Resources The resources may be powered off or disconnected from the
network.  Check that the resources are available and that their network
connection is configured correctly.
 
Check if the other resources are functioning correctly, and that no security
appliances are blocking the connection.
 


==== Internet Internet

When a device can reach local resources, but not the Internet, the first thing
to check is the router that provides the Internet access. Is the router
reachable on the network with a ping test? Is the router connected to the
Internet or is there an Internet service interruption?

==== Local resources Local Resources

These are issues with accessing network resources locally and troubleshooting
steps and questions.


===== Shares Shares— File sharing service requires network access to the file
server and correct sharing configuration. Is the file server accessible with a
ping test? Is there an error message when trying to access the shares? Is it an
authentication or access error?


===== Printers Printers— Is the printer connected to the network? Can it be
reached by other computers on the same network? Have the correct drivers have
been installed on the computer?


===== Email Email— If the Internet connectivity works, but the email application
doesn’t, it’s possibly due to misconfigured settings. Verify the email settings.
Check to see if the email service has a Web interface that can be reached to
verify that the service is operational.


=== No connectivity No connectivity— If you can’t access a local resource, check
that the server you’re trying to reach is connected and working. Can you reach
this resource from another computer on the network? Can you reach the network
from this server or is it disconnected?

No connectivity

Generally when we discuss connectivity, we’re talking about wireless
connectivity. We will look at all aspects of the wireless connection from the
SSID to channel selection.

No Connectivity The device is not connected to the network.  Check that the
cable is connected, the network switch is powered on, and that the network


=== APIPA/link local address APIPA/link local address— APIPA are special
addresses that can be used when there’s no DHCP service on the network. In most
cases, if the device tries to connect to the network but gets an APIPA
(169.254.x.x IP address), that means that there’s no working DHCP server on the
network. Is the DHCP server working and configured correctly? Is DHCP running
out of available addresses? Alternatively, configure IP address, subnet mask,
and default gateway manually, accordingly to your network and router addresses.
On wireless networks, it may be caused by wrong Wi-Fi password. Reconfigure the
network with the correct password.

APIPA/link local address

APIPA/Link Local Addressing is used to assign an IP address to a client. The
Windows nodes on a network will self-assign non-routable addresses to themselves
until the server is able to provide an address.

The device is not able to reach a DHCP server.  Check that the DHCP server is
functioning and connected to the network.
 
=== Intermittent connectivity Intermittent connectivity— On wireless networks,
this may be caused by weak signal or radio interference. Are you too far from
the Wi-Fi access point? Is connectivity more stable when you’re closer to the
access point?  To avoid interference, access points can change the used radio
channel frequency. Try restarting the access point to allow it re-select the
channel. Try manually reconfiguring the channel. On wired networks, it may mean
wiring problem or intermittent power issues in the network equipment.

Intermittent Connectivity The network switch is failing, or the cable connection
is damaged.  Replace the cable or network switch.
 
Check that the Wi-Fi signal is adequate and not being blocked by obstructions.
 

=== IP conflict IP conflict— This can happen when you’re configuring an IP
address manually, and this address already exists on the network. Configure the
device to get an IP address automatically if there’s a DHCP server on the
network. If there’s no DHCP server, configure a different address manually.

IP Conflict

An IP Conflict occurs when two IP based machines use the same address. Duplicate
addresses are not tolerated by the TCP/IP addressing scheme.

Other IP related issues

You can stock utilities such as variations of the ipconfig utility. You can test
the settings on your new DHCP server by creating, renewing, and refreshing the
IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. The addressing can be systematically modified whenever
necessary using this process.

IP Conflict Multiple devices on the same network have the same IP address.  This
typically occurs when the addresses are statically assigned (since a DHCP server
will automatically check for conflicts)
  
Change the devices to DHCP (if available) or change one of the static IPs.
 

=== Slow transfer speeds Slow transfer speeds— On wireless networks, this may be
caused by weak signal or radio interference. Are you too far from the Wi-Fi
access point? Is transfer speed higher when you’re closer to the access point?
On both wireless and wired networks, number of other concurrent transfers may be
causing the slowness. The network is usually shared between multiple devices
that share the available bandwidth.

Slow transfer speeds

This occurs when your resources are impacted by the number of users on a segment
or link. The advertised connection speed is measured when no other devices are
competing for resources. As the number of users increases, the comparative speed
will decrease. Be aware of the number and type of connections in use by your
device at any given time. Monitor and end any app that is using resources
without proving a useful service.

Slow Transfer Speeds Find out where the bottleneck is in the network topology.
Is it the computer, the local network, or the internet?
 
If only one resource (server, website, etc.) is slow, then the issue is with the
resource and/or the route that traffic is taking to the resource.
 
If other sites are slow, the internet connection might be slow.  Check the
connection directly from the internet modem.
 
If the modem provides fast speeds, another portion of the network might be slow.
Check he switch and router to see if the connection is slow.
 
If the network is fast, the computer may be the issue.  Check if the computer is
providing slow speeds, or programs running in the background are affecting it.  
 

=== Low RF signal Low RF Signal— On wireless networks, this may be caused by
weak signal or radio interference. Are you too far from the Wi-Fi access point?
Is connectivity more stable when you’re closer to the access point? To avoid
interference, access points can change the used radio channel frequency. Try
restarting the access point to allow it re-select the channel. Try manually
reconfiguring the channel.

Low RF signal

When you encounter nominal RF signals, it is very difficult for your devices to
perform up to their optimal rates. As the power levels drop on the radio, you
will see a decrease in performance. In the image below, observe the Linksys WAP
that has low/no power.

Weak RF showing on open wireless network

Low RF Signal The Wi-Fi signal is poor.  The Wi-Fi signal can be reduced by
walls, concrete, and steel.  The Wi-Fi access point may be too far away, or may
not have adequate antennas.
 
Move to an area with better signals or install additional access points.
 

=== SSID not found SSID not found— If you have previously configured a Wi-Fi
network, but now the SSID is not working, you’re either out of range of the
access point with this network or the access point configuration has been
changed and the SSID is no longer available. Reconfigure the Wi-Fi connection to
an existing SSID.

SSID not found

In many cases, it is advisable to hide your SSID from the prying eyes of the
internet. If you think about it, you are providing would be attackers with 50%
of the information necessary to access your wireless network. Here is a good
look at Windows Wireless settings available from the Taskbar.

Screenshot of open wireless networks

Check the warning that comes from your cable provider. Open season! If the
connection has to be “Open,” then you should not broadcast the address.

SSID Not Found The SSID is not correct, or the SSID is not broadcasting.  Check
the configuration on the


