---
title: english-words-anki
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-02-10, 06-10-46
date_modified: 2024-09-18, 06-20-43
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
ctime: 20230210234521
id: 54f97aa4-4b45-4b8a-95e9-679f2585bf7a
mtime: 20230307230247 20230215233815 20230212230128 20230212212830
  20230211005650 20230210234525
---

Rank,Word,Pronunciation,PoS,Definition,Tags

|                                                                                    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1,the,/ðiː/,det,"used to refer to something already mentioned", english words ngsl |

2,be,/biː/,verb,"To exist; to be alive; used to give information about
someone or something", english words ngsl 3,and,/ænd/,conj,"used to
refer to two or more things", english words ngsl
4,of,/ɑv/,prep,"belonging to or connected with something", english words
ngsl 5,to,/tu/,prep,"move towards; in the direction of", english words
ngsl 6,a,/ɛɪ/,det,"one (of something)", english words ngsl
7,in,/ɪn/,prep,"being inside something", english words ngsl
8,have,/hæv/,aux,"to own, possess, or hold something", english words
ngsl 9,it,/ɪt/,pron,"a thing that has been previously mentioned",
english words ngsl 10,you,/ju/,pron,"person someone is speaking or
writing to", english words ngsl 11,he,/hiː/,pron,"object form of a male
person you are talking about", english words ngsl
12,for,/foɚ/,prep,"used to show the purpose, or need of something",
english words ngsl 13,they,/ðɛɪ/,pron,"used to refer to two or more
people, animals, or things", english words ngsl 14,not,/nɑt/,adv,"word
indicating the negative of verbs, adjectives, etc.", english words ngsl
15,that,/ðæt/,pron,"used to show which person or thing we are talking
about", english words ngsl 16,we,/wiː/,pron,"used to refer to the
speaker and other people together", english words ngsl
17,on,/ɑn/,prep,"located on the surface of something (e.g., a table or
wall)", english words ngsl 18,with,/wɪð/,prep,"used to express that
people or things are together", english words ngsl
19,this,/ðɪs/,pron,"person, thing, or idea near you", english words ngsl
20,I,/aɪ/,pron,"the person who is speaking or writing", english words
ngsl 21,do,/du/,verb,"to act; to perform actions", english words ngsl
22,as,/æs/,prep,"a word used to compare two equal things", english words
ngsl 23,at,/æt/,prep,"in the place where something is", english words
ngsl 24,she,/ʃiː/,pron,"female person or animal mentioned before",
english words ngsl 25,but,/bʌt/,conj,"used before you say something
different, opposite", english words ngsl 26,from,/frɑm/,prep,"starting
at a particular place, time, or level", english words ngsl
27,by,/baɪ/,prep,"near; with", english words ngsl
28,will,/wɪl/,aux,"used with verbs to express the future", english words
ngsl 29,or,/oɚ/,conj,"used to link alternatives, to introduce another
choice", english words ngsl 30,say,/sɛɪ/,verb,"to use words to tell a
message", english words ngsl 31,go,/goʊ/,verb,"to move or travel to
another place", english words ngsl 32,so,/soʊ/,conj,"for that reason",
english words ngsl 33,all,/oɚl/,adv,"completely; totally", english words
ngsl 34,if,/ɪf/,conj,"introducing a condition for something to happen",
english words ngsl 35,one,/wʌn/,num,"number 1", english words ngsl
36,would,/wʊd/,aux,"modal verb used to indicate possibility, request,
etc.", english words ngsl 37,about,/ə•baʊt/,prep,"of (a subject);
concerning", english words ngsl 38,can,/kæn/,aux,"to be able to; have
the skill to; have the time to", english words ngsl
39,which,/wɪtʃ/,adj,"question word to ask about a person's choice",
english words ngsl 40,there,/ðɛɚ/,adv,"in that place or position, at
that location", english words ngsl 41,know,/noʊ/,verb,"to have knowledge
of things in your mind", english words ngsl 42,more,/moɚ/,adj,"greater
in amount, number, or size", english words ngsl 43,get,/gɛt/,verb,"to
obtain, receive, or be given something", english words ngsl
44,who,/hu/,pron,"what or which person or people, to ask about, talking
about", english words ngsl 45,like,/laɪk/,verb,"to find something
pleasing; to prefer something", english words ngsl
46,when,/wɛn/,noun,"word you use to ask about the time or day", english
words ngsl 47,think,/θɪŋk/,verb,"to have an idea, opinion, or belief
about something", english words ngsl 48,make,/mɛɪk/,verb,"to create
something by putting things together", english words ngsl
49,time,/taɪm/,noun,"something measured in minutes, hours, days, etc.",
english words ngsl 50,see,/siː/,verb,"to use your eyes to look at
something", english words ngsl 51,what,/wɑt/,adv,"asking for information
about someone or something", english words ngsl 52,up,/ʌp/,prep,"move
higher; raise", english words ngsl 53,some,/sʌm/,adj,"used to refer to a
person or thing that is not known", english words ngsl
54,other,/ʌ•ðə/,adj,"something else; not the first one", english words
ngsl 55,out,/aʊt/,prep,"away from the inside or center", english words
ngsl 56,good,/gʊd/,adj,"excellent; high quality", english words ngsl
57,people,/piː•pl/,noun,"human beings in general; plural of person",
english words ngsl 58,year,/jɚ/,noun,"unit of time equal to 12 months",
english words ngsl 59,take,/tɛɪk/,verb,"to pick up something and go away
with it", english words ngsl 60,no,/noʊ/,adv,"being none; not having or
being", english words ngsl 61,well,/wɛl/,adj,"in a good way", english
words ngsl 62,because,/bɪ•kɑz/,conj,"for a reason", english words ngsl
63,very,/vɛ•rɪ/,verb,"much; great in amount", english words ngsl
64,just,/dʒʌst/,adv,"only; a short time ago", english words ngsl
65,come,/kʌm/,verb,"to move toward someone; go with someone", english
words ngsl 66,could,/kʊd/,verb,"used as the past form of can, to show
possibility", english words ngsl 67,work,/wɚk/,noun,"activity you do in
order to make money", english words ngsl 68,use,/juz/,verb,"to do
something with, for a task or purpose", english words ngsl
69,than,/ðæn/,conj,"used when comparing two things", english words ngsl
70,now,/naʊ/,adv,"at the present time or moment", english words ngsl
71,then,/ðɛn/,adv,"at that time not now", english words ngsl
72,also,/oɚl•soʊ/,adv,"in addition; too; in a similar way", english
words ngsl 73,into,/ɪn•tʊ/,prep,"going inside something", english words
ngsl 74,only,/oʊn•lɪ/,adv,"just one; just that amount or thing; not more
than", english words ngsl 75,look,/lʊk/,verb,"to turn your eyes in a
particular direction", english words ngsl 76,want,/wɑnt/,verb,"to desire
or wish for something; hope for a thing", english words ngsl
77,give,/gɪv/,verb,"to hand over or present something to someone",
english words ngsl 78,first,/fɚst/,adj,"coming before all others in time
or place", english words ngsl 79,new,/nju/,adj,"not old, recently born,
built, or made", english words ngsl 80,way,/wɛɪ/,noun,"how something is
done", english words ngsl 81,find,/faɪnd/,verb,"to discover something by
looking for it", english words ngsl 82,over,/oʊ•və/,prep,"above; across;
more than; on the other side", english words ngsl 83,any,/ɛ•nɪ/,adj,"one
(thing) of many; some (thing)", english words ngsl
84,after,/ɑɚf•tə/,adv,"later than another time, or behind something",
english words ngsl 85,day,/dɛɪ/,noun,"a period of 24 hours", english
words ngsl 86,where,/wɛɚ/,noun,"word you use to ask the location of
something", english words ngsl 87,thing,/θɪŋ/,noun,"something you cannot
remember the name of", english words ngsl 88,most,/moʊst/,pron,"nearly
all of something", english words ngsl 89,should,/ʃʊd/,aux,"used to
indicate what is proper or reasonable", english words ngsl
90,need,/niːd/,verb,"to be unable to manage without something; require",
english words ngsl 91,much,/mʌtʃ/,pron,"a lot; large amount; a high
degree of", english words ngsl 92,right,/raɪt/,adj,"on side where the
hand that most people write with", english words ngsl
93,how,/haʊ/,adv,"in what way something happens or is done", english
words ngsl 94,back,/bæk/,noun,"the place you were before", english words
ngsl 95,mean,/miːn/,verb,"to have a particular meaning or value",
english words ngsl 96,even,/iː•vən/,adv,"as well; too", english words
ngsl 97,may,/mɛɪ/,aux,"used to talk about what is possible", english
words ngsl 98,here,/hiːɚ/,adv,"in, at, or to this position or place",
english words ngsl 99,many,/mɛ•nɪ/,adj,"used to refer to a large number
of things", english words ngsl 100,such,/sʌtʃ/,adj,"like or similar",
english words ngsl 101,last,/lɑɚst/,noun,"the one before", english words
ngsl 102,child,/tʃaɪld/,noun,"a very young person, between about 2 and
15", english words ngsl 103,tell,/tɛl/,verb,"to say or communicate
information to someone", english words ngsl
104,really,/riːɚ•lɪ/,adv,"very", english words ngsl
105,call,/koɚl/,verb,"to phone someone", english words ngsl
106,before,/bɪ•foɚ/,adv,"at a time earlier than the present;
previously", english words ngsl 107,company,/kʌm•pə•nɪ/,noun,"a business
that sells things or provides services", english words ngsl
108,through,/θru/,adj,"from one end or side of something to the other
end or side", english words ngsl 109,down,/daʊn/,prep,"going from a
higher position to a lower position", english words ngsl
110,show,/ʃoʊ/,verb,"to explain or teach how something is done", english
words ngsl 111,life,/laɪf/,noun,"all the living things (e.g., animals,
plants, humans)", english words ngsl 112,man,/mæn/,noun,"an adult male
human being", english words ngsl 113,change,/tʃɛɪndʒ/,verb,"to make or
become different, or into something else", english words ngsl
114,place,/plɛɪs/,verb,"to put something in a certain location or
position", english words ngsl 115,long,/lɑŋ/,adj,"large distance from
one end to the other", english words ngsl
116,between,/bɪ•twiːn/,prep,"in the space that separates two objects",
english words ngsl 117,feel,/fiːl/,verb,"to be aware of or experience an
emotion or sensation", english words ngsl 118,too,/tu/,adv,"say that
something is more than you want", english words ngsl
119,still,/stɪl/,adv,"continuing to be the same as before", english
words ngsl 120,problem,/prɑb•ləm/,noun,"something difficult to deal with
or causes trouble", english words ngsl 121,write,/raɪt/,verb,"to make
letters and words on paper or a screen", english words ngsl
122,same,/sɛɪm/,det,"identical; not different", english words ngsl
123,lot,/lɑt/,noun,"a group of people or things considered together",
english words ngsl 124,great,/grɛɪt/,adj,"very good; fantastic;
wonderful", english words ngsl 125,try,/traɪ/,verb,"to make an effort,
to attempt to do something", english words ngsl
126,leave,/liːv/,verb,"to go away from; depart", english words ngsl
127,number,/nʌm•bə/,noun,"symbols such as 1, 2, 56, 793", english words
ngsl 128,both,/boʊθ/,det,"used to refer to two things at the same time",
english words ngsl 129,own,/oʊn/,det,"yours, his, hers, etc.; not
belonging to another", english words ngsl 130,part,/pɑɚt/,noun,"some,
but not all of a specific thing", english words ngsl
131,point,/poɪnt/,verb,"to indicate something with your finger to
others", english words ngsl 132,little,/lɪ•tl/,adj,"not great in size,
amount, or degree; small", english words ngsl 133,help,/hɛlp/,verb,"to
act to enable a person to do something; assist", english words ngsl
134,ask,/ɑɚsk/,verb,"to say to someone that you want something", english
words ngsl 135,meet,/miːt/,verb,"to come together at a certain time or
place", english words ngsl 136,start,/stɑɚt/,noun,"first time or place
that a thing exists; beginning", english words ngsl
137,talk,/toɚk/,verb,"to say things or ideas to someone with words",
english words ngsl 138,something,/sʌm•θɪŋ/,pron,"thing that is not yet
known or named", english words ngsl 139,put,/pʌt/,verb,"to move or place
a thing in a particular position", english words ngsl
140,another,/ə•nʌ•ðə/,det,"one more (thing); additional (thing)",
english words ngsl 141,become,/bɪ•kʌm/,verb,"to begin to be; grow to be;
develop into", english words ngsl 142,interest,/ɪn•trɪst/,verb,"to make
someone want to know about something", english words ngsl
143,country,/kʌn•trɪ/,noun,"an area of land that is controlled by a
government", english words ngsl 144,old,/oʊld/,adj,"having existed for a
long time, not young or new", english words ngsl
145,each,/iːtʃ/,det,"every one of two or more things", english words
ngsl 146,school,/skul/,noun,"building where you learn in classes with a
teacher", english words ngsl 147,late,/lɛɪt/,adj,"happening near the end
of a given time", english words ngsl 148,high,/haɪ/,adj,"rising upward a
great distance", english words ngsl 149,different,/dɪ•frənt/,adj,"not of
the same kind; unlike other things", english words ngsl
150,off,/oɚf/,adj,"not having on; not wearing", english words ngsl
151,next,/nɛkst/,adj,"immediately after the previous one", english words
ngsl 152,end,/ɛnd/,noun,"a point that marks the limit of something;
finish", english words ngsl 153,live,/lɪv/,verb,"to be alive", english
words ngsl 154,why,/waɪ/,adv,"for what reason or purpose", english words
ngsl 155,while,/waɪl/,conj,"during the time that; at the same time",
english words ngsl 156,world,/wɚld/,noun,"all the humans, events,
activities on the earth", english words ngsl
157,week,/wiːk/,noun,"period of seven days, starts on Sunday and end on
Saturday", english words ngsl 158,play,/plɛɪ/,verb,"to do or perform a
game or sport", english words ngsl 159,might,/maɪt/,aux,"used to express
that something could happen", english words ngsl
160,must,/mʌst/,aux,"used to say that something is required or
necessary", english words ngsl 161,home,/hoʊm/,noun,"place where a
person or a family lives", english words ngsl 162,never,/nɛ•və/,adv,"not
ever; not at any time", english words ngsl
163,include,/ɪn•klud/,verb,"to make someone/something part of a group",
english words ngsl 164,course,/koɚs/,noun,"route or direction that a
river, etc., moves along", english words ngsl
165,house,/haʊz/,noun,"building in which a family, person lives",
english words ngsl 166,report,/rɪ•poɚt/,noun,"account of something which
gives the necessary facts and information", english words ngsl
167,group,/grup/,noun,"number of people or things gathered together",
english words ngsl 168,case,/kɛɪs/,noun,"example or instance of
something", english words ngsl 169,woman,/wʊ•mən/,noun,"adult female
human being", english words ngsl 170,around,/ə•raʊnd/,adv,"located on
every side, or along something", english words ngsl
171,book,/bʊk/,noun,"thing made of pages with writing on that you read",
english words ngsl 172,family,/fæ•mɪ•lɪ/,noun,"a group of people who are
related through blood", english words ngsl 173,seem,/siːm/,verb,"to
appear to be something", english words ngsl 174,let,/lɛt/,verb,"to not
stop someone from doing something", english words ngsl
175,again,/ə•gɛn/,adv,"one more time, once more", english words ngsl
176,kind,/kaɪnd/,noun,"one type of thing", english words ngsl
177,keep,/kiːp/,verb,"to have and continue to hold something", english
words ngsl 178,hear,/hiːɚ/,verb,"to be aware of sound; to perceive with
the ear", english words ngsl 179,system,/sɪs•tɪm/,noun,"set of
organized, planned ideas that work together", english words ngsl
180,every,/ɛ•vrɪ/,det,"including each person or thing in a group",
english words ngsl 181,question,/kwɛs•tʃən/,verb,"to ask for or try to
get information", english words ngsl 182,during,/djʊə•rɪŋ/,prep,"at some
point in the course of an event or thing", english words ngsl
183,always,/oɚ•lwəz/,adv,"at all times; in every situation", english
words ngsl 184,big,/bɪg/,adj,"large", english words ngsl
185,set,/sɛt/,noun,"complete group of something (e.g., a chess set)",
english words ngsl 186,small,/smoɚl/,adj,"little in size; not big",
english words ngsl 187,study,/stʌ•dɪ/,verb,"to focus on learning
something usually at school", english words ngsl
188,follow,/fɑ•loʊ/,verb,"to come after someone; be guided by someone",
english words ngsl 189,begin,/bɪ•gɪn/,verb,"to do the first part of an
action; to start", english words ngsl
190,important,/ɪm•poɚ•tənt/,adj,"having a big effect on (person, the
future)", english words ngsl 191,since,/sɪns/,prep,"from the time in the
past that", english words ngsl 192,run,/rʌn/,verb,"to move your legs
faster than walking", english words ngsl 193,under,/ʌn•də/,adj,"in the
same place as another thing, but lower", english words ngsl
194,turn,/tɚn/,verb,"to change the direction of something (e.g., a
car)", english words ngsl 195,few,/fju/,adj,"not many; small in number",
english words ngsl 196,bring,/brɪŋ/,verb,"to take or go with someone to
a place", english words ngsl 197,early,/ɚ•lɪ/,adj,"happening sooner than
expected", english words ngsl 198,hand,/hænd/,noun,"body part at the end
of a person's arm", english words ngsl 199,state,/stɛɪt/,noun,"region
within a country, with its own government", english words ngsl
200,move,/muv/,verb,"to cause something to change to a different place",
english words ngsl 201,money,/mʌ•nɪ/,noun,"coins or notes we use to pay
for things", english words ngsl 202,fact,/fækt/,noun,"something that is
known or proved to be true", english words ngsl
203,however,/haʊ•ɛ•və/,conj,"used when you add information that is
different from a previous statement", english words ngsl
204,area,/ɛɚ•riːɚ/,noun,"a specific section or space; part of a region",
english words ngsl 205,provide,/prə•vaɪd/,verb,"to make available; to
supply for use", english words ngsl 206,name,/nɛɪm/,noun,"what something
or someone is called", english words ngsl 207,read,/rɛd/,verb,"to look
at and comprehend the meaning some writing", english words ngsl
208,friend,/frɛnd/,noun,"person who you like and enjoy being with",
english words ngsl 209,month,/mʌnθ/,noun,"one of 12 time periods that
make a year, each from 28 to 31 days long", english words ngsl
210,large,/lɑɚdʒ/,adj,"big; of great size; broad, tall, wide, long, or
fat", english words ngsl 211,business,/bɪ•zɪ•nɪs/,noun,"a company formed
for making profit", english words ngsl 212,without,/wɪ•ðaʊt/,prep,"used
to say you don't have something or it isn't in a place", english words
ngsl 213,information,/ɪn•fə•mɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"collection of facts and
details about something", english words ngsl 214,open,/oʊ•pən/,adj,"not
closed or shut", english words ngsl 215,order,/oɚ•də/,verb,"to ask for
something you want to buy (e.g., a meal)", english words ngsl
216,government,/gʌ•vn•mənt/,noun,"group of people and system which rule
a nation", english words ngsl 217,word,/wɚd/,noun,"unit of language that
has a meaning", english words ngsl 218,issue,/ɪ•sju/,noun,"important
topic discussed, debated, or argued over", english words ngsl
219,market,/mɑɚ•kɪt/,noun,"public event where people sell goods on
tables", english words ngsl 220,pay,/pɛɪ/,verb,"to give money for goods
or work done", english words ngsl 221,build,/bɪld/,verb,"to make (e.g.,
a house, by putting materials together)", english words ngsl
222,hold,/hoʊld/,verb,"to use hands or arms to carry or keep something",
english words ngsl 223,service,/sɚ•vɪs/,verb,"to maintain a piece of
machinery so it runs well", english words ngsl
224,against,/ə•gɛnst/,prep,"in opposition to; disagreeing with", english
words ngsl 225,believe,/bɪ•liːv/,verb,"to think or accept that something
is true", english words ngsl 226,second,/sɛkənd/,adj,"2nd; the one
following first", english words ngsl 227,though,/ðoʊ/,adv,"although,
despite the fact that", english words ngsl 228,yes,/jɛs/,intj,"way to
say you agree or will do something", english words ngsl
229,love,/lʌv/,verb,"to care for and like someone very strong and
deeply", english words ngsl 230,increase,/ɪn•kriːs/,verb,"to make or
become something larger in size or amount", english words ngsl
231,job,/dʒɑb/,noun,"regular work of earning money", english words ngsl
232,plan,/plæn/,verb,"to decide a set of actions to do something",
english words ngsl 233,result,/ɹɪ•zʌlt/,verb,"to be the outcome of other
causes and effects", english words ngsl 234,away,/ə•wɛɪ/,adv,"not here;
far from here; in a different direction", english words ngsl
235,example,/ɪg•zɑɚm•pl/,noun,"something or someone who represents a
group", english words ngsl 236,happen,/hæ•pən/,verb,"to take place or
occur", english words ngsl 237,offer,/ɑ•fə/,verb,"to give the
opportunity to accept something", english words ngsl
238,young,/jʌŋ/,adj,"at an early stage of existence; not mature",
english words ngsl 239,close,/kloʊz/,adv,"next to; only a short distance
away", english words ngsl 240,program,/proʊ•græm/,noun,"planned set of
actions; a schematic system", english words ngsl
241,lead,/liːd/,verb,"to show the way or guide others", english words
ngsl 242,buy,/baɪ/,verb,"to get something by paying money for it",
english words ngsl 243,understand,/ʌn•də•stænd/,verb,"to know the
meaning of language, what someone says", english words ngsl
244,thank,/θæŋk/,verb,"to tell someone you are grateful to them",
english words ngsl 245,far,/fɑɚ/,adj,"a long way away", english words
ngsl 246,today,/tə•dɛɪ/,adv,"on this day; at the time that is happening
now", english words ngsl 247,hour,/aʊ•ə/,noun,"60 minutes; one of 24
equal units of time in a day", english words ngsl
248,student,/stju•dənt/,noun,"person studying at school", english words
ngsl 249,face,/fɛɪs/,noun,"front part of the head where eyes, nose, and
mouth are", english words ngsl 250,hope,/hoʊp/,noun,"when you wish
something would happen; what you wish", english words ngsl
251,idea,/aɪ•diːɚ/,noun,"belief, thought, suggestion, opinion, or plan",
english words ngsl 252,cost,/kɑst/,noun,"price you pay for something",
english words ngsl 253,less,/lɛs/,adj,"smaller in amount or degree",
english words ngsl 254,room,/rʊm/,noun,"a part of building enclosed by
walls (e.g., kitchen)", english words ngsl 255,until,/ən•tɪl/,conj,"up
to, to indicate a point in time when something happens", english words
ngsl 256,reason,/riː•zn/,noun,"explanation for why something occurred or
was done", english words ngsl 257,form,/foɚm/,noun,"visible shape or
style; type; kind", english words ngsl 258,spend,/spɛnd/,verb,"to use
money to pay for something", english words ngsl 259,head,/hɛd/,noun,"top
part of your body with eyes and a mouth", english words ngsl
260,car,/kɑɚ/,noun,"a vehicle with four wheels and engine that can carry
things", english words ngsl 261,learn,/lɚn/,verb,"to get knowledge or
skills by study or experience", english words ngsl
262,level,/lɛ•vl/,verb,"to make things flat or even", english words ngsl
263,person,/pɚ•sn/,noun,"man, woman, or child", english words ngsl
264,experience,/ɪks•piːɚ•riːɚns/,noun,"knowledge gained by living life,
doing new things", english words ngsl 265,once,/wʌns/,adv,"one time; one
instance", english words ngsl 266,member,/mɛm•bə/,noun,"person or thing
belonging to a group or team", english words ngsl
267,enough,/ɪ•nʌf/,adj,"equal to what is needed; as much as required",
english words ngsl 268,bad,/bæd/,adj,"not good; wrong", english words
ngsl 269,city,/sɪ•tɪ/,noun,"a heavily populated area with many buildings
and roads", english words ngsl 270,night,/naɪt/,noun,"time when sun does
not shine", english words ngsl 271,able,/ɛɪ•bl/,adj,"having the power,
skill, knowledge, or money to do something", english words ngsl
272,support,/sə•poɚt/,verb,"to give assistance or advice to someone",
english words ngsl 273,whether,/wɛ•ðə/,conj,"if something will happen or
not", english words ngsl 274,line,/laɪn/,noun,"mark that is long,
straight, and very thin", english words ngsl
275,present,/prɛ•znt/,noun,"gift", english words ngsl
276,side,/saɪd/,noun,"straight edge of an object", english words ngsl
277,quite,/kwaɪt/,adv,"very; in a complete or total manner", english
words ngsl 278,although,/oɚl•ðoʊ/,conj,"despite the fact that; however",
english words ngsl 279,sure,/ʃʊə/,adj,"having no doubts about
something", english words ngsl 280,term,/tɚm/,noun,"fixed period of
weeks for learning at school", english words ngsl
281,least,/liːst/,adv,"in the smallest or lowest way", english words
ngsl 282,age,/ɛɪdʒ/,noun,"number of years a person has lived (also of
things)", english words ngsl 283,low,/loʊ/,adj,"not high; being near the
ground, or bottom", english words ngsl 284,speak,/spiːk/,verb,"to use
words to tell information, express thoughts", english words ngsl
285,within,/wɪ•ðɪn/,adv,"not beyond the limits of a particular space,
time, or range", english words ngsl 286,process,/proʊ•sɛs/,verb,"to
adopt a set of actions that produce a particular result", english words
ngsl 287,public,/pʌb•lɪk/,adj,"concerning society in general", english
words ngsl 288,often,/oɚ•fn/,adv,"many times, frequently, on many
occasions", english words ngsl 289,train,/trɛɪn/,noun,"vehicle that
carries people and runs on rails", english words ngsl
290,possible,/pɑ•sə•bl/,adj,"having a chance of happening, or being
true", english words ngsl 291,actually,/æktʃʊlɪ/,adv,"used to add new
(often different) information", english words ngsl
292,rather,/rɑɚ•ðə/,adv,"somewhat; fairly; not that much", english words
ngsl 293,view,/vju/,noun,"things you are able to see from a specific
place", english words ngsl 294,together,/tə•gɛ•ðə/,adv,"near close in
the same place not far in a family or group", english words ngsl
295,consider,/kən•sɪ•də/,verb,"to think carefully about something",
english words ngsl 296,price,/praɪs/,verb,"to determine or set the cost
of something", english words ngsl 297,parent,/pɛɚ•rənt/,noun,"person's
mother or father", english words ngsl 298,hard,/hɑɚd/,adj,"difficult to
bend, break or cut; solid", english words ngsl
299,party,/pɑɚ•tɪ/,noun,"social event often with food, drinks, and
dancing", english words ngsl 300,local,/loʊ•kəl/,adj,"relating or
restricted to a particular area, city, or town", english words ngsl
301,control,/kən•troʊl/,verb,"to direct or influence the behavior of
something", english words ngsl 302,already,/oɚl•rɛ•dɪ/,adv,"having
happened or been done before this time", english words ngsl
303,concern,/kən•sɚn/,noun,"feeling of worry or anxiety", english words
ngsl 304,product,/prɑ•dəkt/,noun,"item that can be bought", english
words ngsl 305,lose,/luz/,verb,"to be unable to find something you once
had", english words ngsl 306,story,/stoɚ•rɪ/,noun,"an account or
description of how something happened", english words ngsl
307,almost,/oɚl•moʊst/,adv,"only a little less than, nearly, not quite",
english words ngsl 308,continue,/kən•tɪ•nju/,verb,"to do something
without stopping, or after pausing", english words ngsl
309,stand,/stænd/,verb,"to be upright; not be sitting or lying down",
english words ngsl 310,whole,/hoʊl/,adj,"complete or full; all of",
english words ngsl 311,yet,/jɛt/,adv,"until now; up to the present",
english words ngsl 312,rate,/rɛɪt/,noun,"speed or frequency of events
over time", english words ngsl 313,care,/kɛɚ/,verb,"to look after
someone or something", english words ngsl 314,expect,/ɪks•pɛkt/,verb,"to
believe something is probably going to happen", english words ngsl
315,effect,/ɪ•fɛkt/,noun,"change brought about by a cause; result",
english words ngsl 316,sort,/soɚt/,noun,"group or class of similar
things or people", english words ngsl 317,ever,/ɛ•və/,adv,"at any time;
at all times in the future", english words ngsl
318,anything,/ɛ•nɪ•θɪŋ/,noun,"thing of any kind; used to refer to a
thing in questions", english words ngsl 319,cause,/koɚz/,verb,"to make
something happen; create effect or result", english words ngsl
320,fall,/foɚl/,noun,"dropping from a standing position to the ground",
english words ngsl 321,deal,/diːl/,verb,"to give out (cards, etc.) to;
distribute", english words ngsl 322,water,/woɚ•tə/,noun,"clear liquid
that forms the seas, rivers, and rain", english words ngsl
323,send,/sɛnd/,verb,"to cause mail or package to go to another place",
english words ngsl 324,allow,/ə•laʊ/,verb,"to let or permit someone do
something", english words ngsl 325,soon,/sun/,adv,"at a time not long
from now", english words ngsl 326,watch,/wɑtʃ/,verb,"to look at
carefully to work out what is happening", english words ngsl
327,base,/bɛɪs/,noun,"origin or start from which something came",
english words ngsl 328,probably,/prɑbəblɪ/,adv,"likely to happen or be
true", english words ngsl 329,suggest,/sə•dʒɛst/,verb,"to mention
something that could be done; propose", english words ngsl
330,past,/pɑɚst/,noun,"the time that existed before now (e.g., long
ago)", english words ngsl 331,power,/paʊə2/,noun,"legal or official
right to perform certain actions", english words ngsl
332,test,/tɛst/,noun,"examination; questions to measure knowledge",
english words ngsl 333,visit,/vɪ•zɪt/,verb,"to go to a place for a time,
usually for a reason", english words ngsl
334,center,/sɛn•tə/,noun,"place in the middle of something", english
words ngsl 335,grow,/groʊ/,verb,"to develop and become bigger or taller
over time", english words ngsl 336,nothing,/nʌ•θɪŋ/,pron,"not anything,
not a single thing", english words ngsl 337,return,/rɪ•tɚn/,verb,"to
come back to a place again", english words ngsl
338,mother,/mʌ•ðə/,noun,"a female who has a child or children", english
words ngsl 339,walk,/woɚk/,verb,"to move with your legs at a slowish
pace", english words ngsl 340,matter,/mæ•tə/,noun,"problem or reason for
concern", english words ngsl 341,mind,/maɪnd/,noun,"part of humans that
allows us to think or feel", english words ngsl
342,value,/væ•lju/,verb,"to say how much money something is worth",
english words ngsl 343,office,/ɑ•fɪs/,noun,"building of set of rooms
used to do business or professional activities", english words ngsl
344,record,/rɪ•koɚd/,noun,"being the highest or most extreme level
achieved in an area", english words ngsl 345,stay,/stɛɪ/,verb,"to spend
time visiting a place or someone's home", english words ngsl
346,force,/foɚs/,verb,"to use physical strength or violence to
persuade", english words ngsl 347,stop,/stɑp/,verb,"to finish moving or
to come to an end", english words ngsl 348,several,/sɛ•vrəl/,det,"more
than two but not many", english words ngsl 349,light,/laɪt/,adj,"not
heavy; weighing only a little", english words ngsl
350,develop,/dɪ•vɛ•ləp/,verb,"to grow bigger, more complex, or more
advanced", english words ngsl 351,remember,/rɪ•mɛm•bə/,verb,"to bring a
previous image or idea to your mind", english words ngsl
352,bit,/bɪt/,noun,"small piece of something", english words ngsl
353,share,/ʃɛɚ/,noun,"part of a company you own, shown by a
certificate", english words ngsl 354,real,/rɛɪ•ɑɚl/,adj,"actually
existing or happening, not imagined", english words ngsl
355,answer,/ɑɚn•sə/,noun,"solution to a problem or test question",
english words ngsl 356,sit,/sɪt/,verb,"to be in a resting position on a
chair", english words ngsl 357,figure,/fɪ•gə/,verb,"to understand after
thinking; work out", english words ngsl 358,letter,/lɛ•tə/,noun,"message
you put in an envelope and send by post", english words ngsl
359,decide,/dɪ•saɪd/,verb,"to make a choice about something or choose
after thinking", english words ngsl 360,language,/læŋ•gwɪdʒ/,noun,"words
or signs used to communicate messages", english words ngsl
361,subject,/səb•dʒɛkt/,noun,"person or thing that does the action of a
verb", english words ngsl 362,class,/klɑɚs/,noun,"rank or level in
society, ranked from high (rich professional people) to low (ordinary
people)", english words ngsl 363,development,/dɪ•vɛ•ləp•mənt/,noun,"act
or process of growing bigger or more advanced", english words ngsl
364,town,/taʊn/,noun,"small city", english words ngsl
365,half,/hɑɚf/,noun,"the part you get when one is divided into two; ½",
english words ngsl 366,minute,/maɪ•njut/,noun,"unit of time equal to 60
seconds", english words ngsl 367,food,/fud/,noun,"what people and
animals eat to live", english words ngsl 368,break,/brɛɪk/,verb,"to
separate into pieces by force, or by dropping", english words ngsl
369,clear,/kliːɚ/,adj,"easy to understand; well-explained; obvious",
english words ngsl 370,future,/fju•tʃə/,noun,"time that is to come after
the present", english words ngsl 371,either,/aɪ•ðə/,adj,"one of two
(used when there is a choice of two)", english words ngsl
372,ago,/ə•goʊ/,adv,"at a specified length of time in the past", english
words ngsl 373,per,/pɚ/,prep,"for each; during each", english words ngsl
374,remain,/rɪ•mɛɪn/,verb,"to be left behind, to continue to exist",
english words ngsl 375,top,/tɑp/,noun,"highest or upper part or point of
something", english words ngsl 376,among,/ə•mʌŋ/,prep,"in the center of
some things; in relation to several things", english words ngsl
377,win,/wɪn/,verb,"to succeed in a game or contest", english words ngsl
378,color,/kʌ•lɚ/,noun,"the quality of things you can see (e.g., red,
blue)", english words ngsl 379,involve,/ɪn•vɑlv/,verb,"to have or be
included as a part of something", english words ngsl
380,reach,/riːtʃ/,verb,"to come to or arrive at a goal or destination",
english words ngsl 381,social,/soʊ•ʃəl/,adj,"involving activities among
people especially free time activities", english words ngsl
382,period,/piːɚ•riːɚd/,noun,"set amount of time during which events
take place", english words ngsl 383,across,/ə•krɑs/,adv,"from one side
to the other of something", english words ngsl 384,note,/noʊt/,verb,"to
make mention of something; to make a remark", english words ngsl
385,history,/hɪs•tə•rɪ/,noun,"study of past event", english words ngsl
386,create,/kriː•ɛɪt/,verb,"to make, cause, or bring into existence",
english words ngsl 387,drive,/draɪv/,verb,"to control a vehicle so that
it moves somewhere", english words ngsl 388,along,/ə•lɑŋ/,prep,"at a
point on a line", english words ngsl 389,type,/taɪp/,noun,"group of
things or people sharing common features", english words ngsl
390,sound,/saʊnd/,noun,"waves traveling in air or water that can be
heard", english words ngsl 391,eye,/aɪ/,noun,"part of the body that you
see with", english words ngsl 392,music,/mju•zɪk/,noun,"sounds that are
sung or played to give pleasure", english words ngsl
393,game,/gɛɪm/,noun,"activity with rules that people play to have fun",
english words ngsl 394,political,/pə•lɪ•tɪ•kəl/,adj,"concerning
government or public affairs", english words ngsl
395,free,/friː/,adj,"costing no money", english words ngsl
396,receive,/rɪ•siːv/,verb,"to get something that someone has given or
sent to you", english words ngsl 397,moment,/moʊ•mənt/,noun,"very short
or brief period of time", english words ngsl
398,sale,/sɛɪl/,noun,"giving something for money; the amount sold",
english words ngsl 399,policy,/pɑ•lɪ•sɪ/,noun,"course of action proposed
by an organization, etc.", english words ngsl
400,further,/fɚ•ðə/,adj,"extra; in addition", english words ngsl
401,body,/bɑ•dɪ/,noun,"a person's physical self", english words ngsl
402,require,/rɪ•kwaɪ•ə/,verb,"to need something, to make it necessary",
english words ngsl 403,wait,/wɛɪt/,verb,"to spend time until an expected
thing happens", english words ngsl
404,general,/dʒɛ•nə•rəl/,adj,"widespread, normal or usual", english
words ngsl 405,appear,/ə•piːɚ/,verb,"to be seen, become visible; come
into sight", english words ngsl 406,toward,/tə•woɚd/,adv,"facing or
moving in the direction of something", english words ngsl
407,team,/tiːm/,noun,"group of people working on a task together",
english words ngsl 408,easy,/iː•zɪ/,adj,"not hard to do; not difficult",
english words ngsl 409,individual,/ɪn•dɪ•vɪ•djʊəl/,noun,"single person,
looked at separately from others", english words ngsl
410,full,/fʊl/,adj,"containing or holding as much as possible", english
words ngsl 411,black,/blæk/,adj,"color of the sky on a dark night",
english words ngsl 412,sense,/sɛns/,verb,"to perceive using sight,
sound, taste touch or hearing", english words ngsl
413,perhaps,/pɚ•hæps/,adv,"possibly, but not certainly; maybe", english
words ngsl 414,add,/æd/,verb,"to put two things or numbers together
(e.g., 2+2)", english words ngsl 415,rule,/rul/,noun,"statement that
says how things should be", english words ngsl 416,pass,/pɑɚs/,verb,"to
travel through or near a place", english words ngsl
417,produce,/prə•djus/,verb,"to manufacture something using machines",
english words ngsl 418,sell,/sɛl/,verb,"to exchange something for
money", english words ngsl 419,short,/ʃoɚt/,noun,"small distance from
one end to the other", english words ngsl 420,agree,/ə•griː/,verb,"to
have the same opinion as someone else", english words ngsl
421,law,/loɚ/,noun,"system or rules made by the government", english
words ngsl 422,everything,/ɛ•vrɪ•θɪŋ/,pron,"all of the things
mentioned", english words ngsl 423,research,/rɪ•sɚtʃ/,verb,"to carefully
study to find and report new knowledge", english words ngsl
424,cover,/kʌ•və/,noun,"thing you put over something to close or hide
it", english words ngsl 425,paper,/pɛɪ•pə/,noun,"pages of a book are
made from this", english words ngsl
426,position,/pə•zɪ•ʃən/,noun,"specific location where someone or
something is", english words ngsl 427,near,/niːɚ/,adj,"with a small
distance between things", english words ngsl 428,human,/hju•mən/,noun,"a
person; a man, woman or child", english words ngsl
429,computer,/kəm•pju•tə/,noun,"a machine for storing information and
accessing the internet", english words ngsl
430,situation,/sɪ•tjʊ•ɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"condition, location or position",
english words ngsl 431,staff,/stɑɚf/,noun,"employees of a company",
english words ngsl 432,activity,/æk•tɪ•vɪ•tɪ/,noun,"an action or task
(e.g., sports, washing your clothes)", english words ngsl
433,film,/fɪlm/,noun,"movie", english words ngsl
434,morning,/moɚ•nɪŋ/,noun,"early part of the day before 12 noon",
english words ngsl 435,war,/woɚ/,noun,"situation where armies fight each
other", english words ngsl 436,account,/ə•kaʊnt/,noun,"arrangement with
a bank to keep your money for you", english words ngsl
437,shop,/ʃɑp/,noun,"place which sells things", english words ngsl
438,major,/mɛɪ•dʒə/,adj,"important, serious, or large in scope", english
words ngsl 439,someone,/sʌ•mwʌn/,pron,"person who is not known or
named", english words ngsl 440,above,/ə•bʌv/,adv,"in a higher place than
something else", english words ngsl 441,design,/dɪ•zaɪn/,verb,"to plan
in a particular way to fulfill a purpose", english words ngsl
442,event,/ɪ•vɛnt/,noun,"something that happens", english words ngsl
443,special,/spɛ•ʃəl/,adj,"different from what is usual; better or
greater than normal", english words ngsl
444,sometimes,/sʌm•taɪmz/,adv,"only at certain times; occasionally",
english words ngsl 445,condition,/kən•dɪ•ʃən/,noun,"state of living you
are in (e.g., good health)", english words ngsl
446,carry,/kæ•rɪ/,verb,"to hold something and move it to another place",
english words ngsl 447,choose,/tʃuz/,verb,"to select; decide between
several possibilities", english words ngsl 448,father,/fɑɚ•ðə/,noun,"a
male parent", english words ngsl 449,decision,/dɪ•sɪ•ʒən/,noun,"a choice
you make about something after thinking about it", english words ngsl
450,table,/tɛɪ•bl/,noun,"raised flat surface", english words ngsl
451,certain,/sɚ•tn/,adj,"being sure about something; without doubt",
english words ngsl 452,forward,/foɚ•wəd/,adv,"toward what is ahead or in
front", english words ngsl 453,main,/mɛɪn/,adj,"most important; most
often used", english words ngsl 454,die,/daɪ/,verb,"to stop living",
english words ngsl 455,bear,/bɛɚ/,noun,"large brown animal with fur that
lives in forests", english words ngsl 456,cut,/kʌt/,verb,"to use a knife
or scissors to divide or open the surface", english words ngsl
457,describe,/dɪs•kraɪb/,verb,"to tell someone the appearance, sound or
smell of something", english words ngsl 458,himself,/hɪm•sɛlf/,pron,"the
same (male) person who did the action", english words ngsl
459,available,/ə•vɛɪ•lə•bl/,adj,"present and able to be used", english
words ngsl 460,especially,/ɪ'spɛʃəlɪ/,adv,"more than usual; extremely",
english words ngsl 461,strong,/strɑŋ/,adj,"having big muscles;
physically powerful", english words ngsl 462,rise,/raɪz/,verb,"to move
from a lower position to a higher one", english words ngsl
463,girl,/gɚl/,noun,"a female child", english words ngsl
464,maybe,/mɛɪ•biː/,adv,"possibly but not certainly; perhaps", english
words ngsl 465,community,/kə•mju•nɪ•tɪ/,noun,"group of people who share
a common idea or area", english words ngsl
466,else,/ɛls/,adv,"otherwise; if you fail to…", english words ngsl
467,particular,/pə•tɪ•kjʊ•lə/,adj,"one specific (one)", english words
ngsl 468,role,/roʊl/,noun,"character played by an actor", english words
ngsl 469,join,/dʒoɪn/,verb,"to bring something close to another, to
become one", english words ngsl 470,difficult,/dɪ•fɪ•kəlt/,adj,"hard;
not easy; you need to work hard to do it", english words ngsl
471,please,/pliːz/,adv,"you say this when you politely ask people for
things", english words ngsl 472,detail,/diː•tɛɪl/,noun,"small part of
something; tiny fact", english words ngsl
473,difference,/dɪ•frəns/,noun,"not of the same kind; unlike other
things", english words ngsl 474,action,/æk•ʃən/,noun,"something that a
person or thing does", english words ngsl 475,health,/hɛlθ/,noun,"being
in a good condition; being well", english words ngsl
476,eat,/ɛt/,verb,"to put food in your mouth", english words ngsl
477,step,/stɛp/,noun,"flat horizontal piece that forms stairs", english
words ngsl 478,true,/tru/,adv,"agreeing with the facts; not false; real
or actual", english words ngsl 479,phone,/foʊn/,verb,"to talk to someone
using a telephone", english words ngsl
480,themselves,/ðəm•sɛlvz/,pron,"reflexive form of they", english words
ngsl 481,draw,/droɚ/,verb,"to create an image using pen or pencil and
paper", english words ngsl 482,white,/waɪt/,adj,"lightest color; the
color of fresh snow and milk", english words ngsl
483,date,/dɛɪt/,noun,"a day in the calendar such as January 3rd",
english words ngsl 484,practice,/præk•tɪs/,verb,"to do something many
times to improve a skill", english words ngsl 485,model,/mɑ•dl/,adj,"to
make a small scale copy of a full original", english words ngsl
486,raise,/rɛɪz/,verb,"to increase a quantity, size, intensity or
price", english words ngsl 487,customer,/kʌs•tə•mə/,noun,"someone who
buys goods or services from a business", english words ngsl
488,front,/frʌnt/,adj,"opposite of back; the forward part of an object",
english words ngsl 489,explain,/ɪks•plɛɪn/,verb,"to make clear or easy
to understand by describing", english words ngsl
490,door,/doɚ/,noun,"you walk through this when you go in a room",
english words ngsl 491,outside,/aʊt•saɪd/,noun,"area around or near
something, such as a building", english words ngsl
492,behind,/bɪ•haɪnd/,adv,"in or toward the back", english words ngsl
493,economic,/iː•kə•nɑ•mɪk/,adj,"having to do with trade, industry, and
money", english words ngsl 494,site,/saɪt/,noun,"present, former, or
future location of something, such as a building", english words ngsl
495,approach,/ə•proʊtʃ/,verb,"to get close to reaching something or
somewhere", english words ngsl 496,teacher,/tiː•tʃə/,noun,"person who
teaches others, especially in a school", english words ngsl
497,land,/lænd/,noun,"the earth; the ground", english words ngsl
498,charge,/tʃɑɚdʒ/,verb,"to ask for money as a price for a service or
goods", english words ngsl 499,finally,/faɪ•nə•lɪ/,adv,"after a long
time or some difficulty", english words ngsl
500,sign,/saɪn/,noun,"something such as a mark or event that shows that
something exists, is true, is happening or will happen", english words
ngsl 501,claim,/klɛɪm/,verb,"to say something is true when others may
not agree", english words ngsl
502,relationship,/rɪ•lɛɪ•ʃən•ʃɪp/,noun,"manner in which people, groups
or countries behave toward one another", english words ngsl
503,travel,/træ•vl/,verb,"to go to a place that is far away", english
words ngsl 504,enjoy,/ɪn•dʒoɪ/,verb,"to take pleasure in something",
english words ngsl 505,death,/dɛθ/,noun,"when someone dies; the end of
life", english words ngsl 506,nice,/naɪs/,adj,"good or enjoyable",
english words ngsl 507,amount,/ə•maʊnt/,noun,"quantity of something",
english words ngsl 508,improve,/ɪm•pruv/,verb,"to make, or become,
something better", english words ngsl
509,picture,/pɪk•tʃə/,noun,"painting, drawing or photograph on paper or
screen", english words ngsl 510,boy,/boɪ/,noun,"a young male person",
english words ngsl 511,regard,/rɪ•gɑɚd/,verb,"to pay attention to
someone or something", english words ngsl
512,organization,/oɚ•gə•naɪ•zɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"formal group of people with a
particular purpose", english words ngsl 513,happy,/hæ•pɪ/,adj,"feeling
pleasure or joy; glad", english words ngsl 514,couple,/kʌ•pl/,noun,"two
of something; two people; a pair", english words ngsl
515,act,/ækt/,verb,"to behave in a certain way", english words ngsl
516,range,/rɛɪndʒ/,noun,"limits within which something extends or
varies", english words ngsl 517,quality,/kwɑ•lɪ•tɪ/,noun,"high level of
worth or excellence", english words ngsl 518,project,/prə•dʒɛkt/,noun,"a
planned piece of work for specific purpose", english words ngsl
519,round,/raʊnd/,adj,"being in the shape of a circle or ball", english
words ngsl 520,opportunity,/ɑ•pə•tju•nɪ•tɪ/,noun,"time/situation when a
thing might be done; chance", english words ngsl
521,road,/roʊd/,noun,"long piece of hard land for cars to travel on",
english words ngsl 522,accord,/ə•koɚd/,noun,"agreement or harmony",
english words ngsl 523,list,/lɪst/,noun,"series of written names, words
or numbers", english words ngsl 524,wish,/wɪʃ/,verb,"to want something
to happen or to become true", english words ngsl
525,therefore,/ðɛɚ•foɚ/,adv,"for that reason", english words ngsl
526,wear,/wɛɚ/,verb,"to have clothes, glasses, shoes, etc., on your
body", english words ngsl 527,fund,/fʌnd/,noun,"to supply money for
something", english words ngsl 528,rest,/rɛst/,noun,"time when one
relaxes, sleeps, or is inactive", english words ngsl
529,kid,/kɪd/,noun,"informal child or young person", english words ngsl
530,industry,/ɪn•dəs•trɪ/,noun,"factories or businesses that make
certain products", english words ngsl
531,education,/ɛ•dju•kɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"process of giving or receiving
teaching", english words ngsl 532,measure,/mɛ•ʒə/,verb,"to calculate
size, weight or temperature of", english words ngsl
533,kill,/kɪl/,verb,"to end the life of a person or other living thing",
english words ngsl 534,serve,/sɚv/,verb,"to give or provide something to
another person", english words ngsl 535,likely,/laɪk•lɪ/,adj,"referring
to the chance that something will actually happen", english words ngsl
536,certainly,/sɚtnlɪ/,adv,"definitely true or is sure to happen",
english words ngsl 537,national,/næ•ʃə•nL/,adj,"concerning a nation as a
whole", english words ngsl 538,itself,/ɪt•sɛlf/,pron,"referring to it",
english words ngsl 539,teach,/tiːtʃ/,verb,"to help someone learn or do
something", english words ngsl 540,field,/fiːld/,noun,"open area of
land, especially without buildings", english words ngsl
541,security,/sɪ•kjʊə•rɪ•tɪ/,noun,"things done to protect people,
buildings, a country, etc., from harm", english words ngsl
542,air,/ɛɚ/,noun,"mixture of gases around the earth that we breathe",
english words ngsl 543,benefit,/bɛ•nɪ•fɪt/,noun,"good result or effect,
something advantageous", english words ngsl 544,trade,/trɛɪd/,verb,"to
buy, sell and exchange goods in business", english words ngsl
545,risk,/rɪsk/,verb,"to take the chance that you may do something
dangerous", english words ngsl 546,news,/njuz/,noun,"information about
recent events", english words ngsl 547,standard,/stæn•dəd/,adj,"accepted
level of quality; an official measurement", english words ngsl
548,vote,/voʊt/,verb,"to make a choice for or against, as in an
election", english words ngsl 549,percent,/pɚ•sɛnt/,noun,"one
one-hundredth of a whole", english words ngsl
550,focus,/foʊ•kəs/,noun,"main purpose or center of interest or
activity", english words ngsl 551,stage,/stɛɪdʒ/,noun,"place where
actors or musician perform for others", english words ngsl
552,space,/spɛɪs/,noun,"empty area with nothing in it", english words
ngsl 553,instead,/ɪn•stɛd/,adv,"when one thing is replaced by another",
english words ngsl 554,realize,/riːɚ•laɪz/,verb,"to become aware of or
understand mentally", english words ngsl
555,usually,/juʒəlɪ/,adv,"normally; regularly", english words ngsl
556,data,/dɛɪ•tə/,noun,"facts or information used to calculate or
analyze", english words ngsl 557,single,/sɪŋ•gl/,adj,"only, merely",
english words ngsl 558,address,/ə•drɛs/,noun,"exact street location of a
place", english words ngsl 559,performance,/pɚ•foɚ•məns/,noun,"activity
done to entertain an audience", english words ngsl
560,chance,/tʃɑɚns/,noun,"possibility that something will happen",
english words ngsl 561,accept,/ək•sɛpt/,verb,"to agree to receive or
take something offered", english words ngsl
562,society,/sə•saɪ•ə•tɪ/,noun,"community of people living together",
english words ngsl 563,technology,/tɛk•nɑ•lə•dʒɪ/,noun,"use or knowledge
of science in industry, engineering, etc.", english words ngsl
564,mention,/mɛn•ʃən/,verb,"to refer to or talk or write about
something", english words ngsl 565,choice,/tʃoɪs/,noun,"decision between
two or more possibilities", english words ngsl 566,save,/sɛɪv/,verb,"to
rescue someone or something from a bad situation", english words ngsl
567,common,/kɑ•mən/,adj,"typical, normal; not unusual", english words
ngsl 568,culture,/kʌl•tʃə/,noun,"beliefs and customs of a particular
group", english words ngsl 569,total,/toʊ•tl/,noun,"whole number or
amount of something", english words ngsl 570,demand,/dɪ•mɑɚnd/,verb,"to
strongly request someone to do something; insist", english words ngsl
571,material,/mə•tiːɚ•riːɚl/,noun,"substance from which a thing is made
of", english words ngsl 572,limit,/lɪ•mɪt/,noun,"point beyond which it
is not possible to go", english words ngsl 573,listen,/lɪ•sn/,verb,"to
use your ears to hear and understand things", english words ngsl
574,due,/dju/,adj,"when something is required or expected", english
words ngsl 575,wrong,/rɑŋ/,adj,"not right, incorrect; not true; bad",
english words ngsl 576,foot,/fʊt/,noun,"lowest part of the leg we use to
stand on", english words ngsl 577,effort,/ɛ•fət/,noun,"amount of work
used trying to do something", english words ngsl
578,attention,/ə•tɛn•ʃən/,noun,"focus of your thoughts on something",
english words ngsl 579,upon,/ə•pɑn/,prep,"more formal term for on",
english words ngsl 580,check,/tʃɛk/,verb,"to confirm the details of
something are correct", english words ngsl
581,complete,/kəm•pliːt/,verb,"to finish or reach the end of doing
something", english words ngsl 582,lie,/laɪ/,verb,"to say something that
you know is not true", english words ngsl 583,pick,/pɪk/,verb,"to decide
on a thing from various choices; select", english words ngsl
584,reduce,/rɪ•djus/,verb,"to make something smaller or use less of it",
english words ngsl 585,personal,/pɚs•nL/,adj,"done by or to a particular
person; individual", english words ngsl 586,ground,/graʊnd/,verb,"solid
surface of the earth that we stand on", english words ngsl
587,animal,/æ•nɪ•məl/,noun,"a living creature that is not a plant or
person", english words ngsl 588,arrive,/ə•raɪv/,verb,"to reach the place
you are travelling to", english words ngsl
589,patient,/pɛɪ•ʃənt/,adj,"not getting annoyed when things take a long
time", english words ngsl 590,current,/kʌ•rənt/,adj,"happening or being
in the present time", english words ngsl
591,century,/sɛn•tʃʊ•rɪ/,noun,"period of 100 years", english words ngsl
592,evidence,/ɛ•vɪ•dəns/,noun,"factual proof that helps to establish the
truth", english words ngsl 593,exist,/ɪg•zɪst/,verb,"to be present,
alive or real", english words ngsl 594,similar,/sɪ•mɪ•lə/,adj,"nearly
the same", english words ngsl 595,fight,/faɪt/,noun,"act of trying to
hurt someone by hitting them", english words ngsl
596,leader,/liː•də/,noun,"person who is in charge of a group or task",
english words ngsl 597,fine,/faɪn/,adj,"good, acceptable or
satisfactory", english words ngsl 598,street,/striːt/,noun,"road in a
city with buildings and places to walk", english words ngsl
599,former,/foɚ•mə/,det,"being something previously, but not now",
english words ngsl 600,contact,/kən•tækt/,verb,"to get in touch with
someone", english words ngsl
601,particularly,/pə'tɪkjʊləlɪ/,adv,"specially; more than others",
english words ngsl 602,wife,/waɪf/,noun,"married woman", english words
ngsl 603,sport,/spoɚt/,noun,"game or physical exercise with rules",
english words ngsl 604,prepare,/prɪ•pɛɚ/,verb,"to make something ready
for use", english words ngsl 605,discuss,/dɪs•kʌs/,verb,"to talk about
something seriously or in great detail", english words ngsl
606,response,/rɪs•pɑns/,noun,"something said or written as an answer to
something", english words ngsl 607,voice,/voɪs/,noun,"sound made when
you speak or sing", english words ngsl 608,piece,/piːs/,noun,"small part
that of something larger", english words ngsl
609,finish,/fɪ•nɪʃ/,noun,"end of something; completion", english words
ngsl 610,suppose,/sə•poʊz/,verb,"to imagine or guess what might happen",
english words ngsl 611,apply,/ə•plaɪ/,verb,"to ask formally for (a job,
building permission, etc.)", english words ngsl
612,president,/prɛ•zɪ•dənt/,noun,"person in charge of a country,
company, or organization", english words ngsl
613,fire,/faɪ•ə/,noun,"heat and the flame produced when burning",
english words ngsl 614,compare,/kəm•pɛɚ/,verb,"to consider how similar
and different things are", english words ngsl
615,court,/koɚt/,noun,"large, flat area, to play tennis or basketball",
english words ngsl 616,police,/pə•liːs/,noun,"people, often in uniforms,
who solve crimes", english words ngsl 617,store,/stoɚ/,noun,"place where
you can go to buy things", english words ngsl
618,poor,/pʊə/,adj,"without money; not rich", english words ngsl
619,knowledge,/nɑ•lɪdʒ/,noun,"information, understanding, or skill",
english words ngsl 620,laugh,/lɑɚf/,verb,"to make a happy sound when
something is funny", english words ngsl 621,arm,/ɑɚm/,noun,"part of your
body from your shoulder to your hand", english words ngsl
622,heart,/hɑɚt/,noun,"part of the body that pumps blood", english words
ngsl 623,source,/soɚs/,noun,"produces or provides what is wanted or
needed", english words ngsl 624,employee,/ɛm•ploɪ•iː/,noun,"person who
works for someone else for payment", english words ngsl
625,manage,/mæ•nɪdʒ/,verb,"to run or operate a business by directing
others", english words ngsl 626,simply,/sɪm•plɪ/,adv,"in an easy or
clear manner", english words ngsl 627,bank,/bæŋk/,noun,"a financial
institution that keeps or lends money", english words ngsl
628,firm,/fɚm/,adj,"fairly hard or solid, not soft", english words ngsl
629,cell,/sɛl/,noun,"short for 'cellphone'", english words ngsl
630,article,/ɑɚ•tɪ•kl/,noun,"piece of writing about a particular
subject", english words ngsl 631,fast,/fɑɚst/,adj,"moving or able to
move quickly", english words ngsl 632,attack,/ə•tæk/,verb,"to try to
destroy, beat, or injure", english words ngsl
633,foreign,/fɑ•rɪn/,adj,"being of a different place or country",
english words ngsl 634,surprise,/sə•praɪz/,verb,"to do something that
another person didn't expect", english words ngsl
635,feature,/fiː•tʃə/,noun,"distinctive or important point of
something", english words ngsl 636,factor,/fæk•tə/,noun,"something that
influences a result", english words ngsl 637,pretty,/prɪ•tɪ/,adj,"being
attractive to the eye in a simple way", english words ngsl
638,recently,/riːsntlɪ/,adv,"just a while ago; not long ago", english
words ngsl 639,affect,/ə•fɛkt/,verb,"to do something that changes
something else", english words ngsl 640,drop,/drɑp/,verb,"to let
something fall from your hand", english words ngsl
641,recent,/riː•snt/,adj,"happening or beginning not long ago", english
words ngsl 642,relate,/rɪ•lɛɪt/,verb,"to understand or sympathize with
someone or something", english words ngsl
643,official,/ə•fɪ•ʃəl/,adj,"of or done by someone in authority;
formal", english words ngsl 644,financial,/faɪ•næn•ʃəl/,adj,"involving
money", english words ngsl 645,miss,/mɪs/,verb,"to be too late to ride
on something (e.g., train or bus)", english words ngsl
646,art,/ɑɚt/,noun,"a creative skill using the imagination (e.g.,
painting)", english words ngsl 647,campaign,/kæm•pɛɪn/,verb,"to work in
an organized and active way toward a goal", english words ngsl
648,private,/praɪ•vɪt/,adj,"personal; not to be seen by everyone",
english words ngsl 649,pause,/poɚz/,verb,"to stop doing for a while
before continuing", english words ngsl
650,everyone,/ɛ•vrɪ•wʌn/,pron,"every person; everybody", english words
ngsl 651,forget,/fə•gɛt/,verb,"to not remember something", english words
ngsl 652,page,/pɛɪdʒ/,noun,"one side of a sheet of paper", english words
ngsl 653,worry,/wʌ•rɪ/,verb,"to feel concerned or troubled about
something", english words ngsl 654,summer,/sʌ•mə/,noun,"part of the year
when the weather is hot", english words ngsl 655,drink,/drɪŋk/,verb,"to
put water in your body through your mouth", english words ngsl
656,opinion,/ə•pɪ•njən/,noun,"a person's thoughts on a topic", english
words ngsl 657,park,/pɑɚk/,verb,"to put your car or bike in a certain
place for a time", english words ngsl
658,represent,/rɛ•prɪ•zɛnt/,verb,"to stand in the place or to act the
part of", english words ngsl 659,key,/kiː/,noun,"something you use to
open a lock or start a car", english words ngsl
660,inside,/ɪn•saɪd/,adj,"being in something", english words ngsl
661,manager,/mæ•nɪ•dʒə/,noun,"person who controls and runs a business or
group", english words ngsl 662,international,/ɪn•tɚ•næ•ʃə•nL/,adj,"done
or relating to several countries, not just your own", english words ngsl
663,contain,/kən•tɛɪn/,verb,"to hold something inside something else",
english words ngsl 664,notice,/noʊ•tɪs/,verb,"to become aware by sight,
touch, or hearing", english words ngsl
665,wonder,/wʌn•də/,noun,"surprise caused by experiencing something
amazing", english words ngsl 666,nature,/nɛɪ•tʃə/,noun,"physical world,
including plants, animals, rocks", english words ngsl
667,structure,/strʌk•tʃə/,noun,"way something is built, arranged, or
organized", english words ngsl 668,section,/sɛk•ʃən/,noun,"one of the
parts that form something", english words ngsl
669,myself,/maɪ•sɛlf/,pron,"same person as did the action mentioned",
english words ngsl 670,exactly,/ɪg'zæktlɪ/,adv,"no more and no less
than; precisely", english words ngsl 671,plant,/plɑɚnt/,noun,"living
thing with leaves and roots growing in soil", english words ngsl
672,paint,/pɛɪnt/,verb,"to apply something; coat", english words ngsl
673,worker,/wɚ•kə/,noun,"person who works", english words ngsl
674,press,/prɛs/,verb,"to push something against something else",
english words ngsl 675,whatever,/wɑt•ɛ•və/,det,"anything or everything
needed; no matter what", english words ngsl
676,necessary,/nɛ•sɪ•sə•rɪ/,adj,"needed or required; unavoidable",
english words ngsl 677,region,/riːdʒən/,noun,"part of a country, of the
world, area, etc.", english words ngsl 678,growth,/groʊθ/,noun,"act of
growing", english words ngsl 679,evening,/iːv•nɪŋ/,noun,"last part of
the day and early part of the night", english words ngsl
680,influence,/ɪn•flʊəns/,verb,"to affect what happens; change something
(indirectly)", english words ngsl 681,respect,/rɪs•pɛkt/,verb,"to think
very highly of another person because of what they do", english words
ngsl 682,various,/vɛɚ•riːɚs/,adj,"several; consisting of different
things or types", english words ngsl 683,catch,/kætʃ/,verb,"use your
hands to stop and hold something flying", english words ngsl
684,thus,/ðʌs/,adv,"therefore; so; as a result", english words ngsl
685,skill,/skɪl/,noun,"ability to do something well", english words ngsl
686,attempt,/ə•tɛmpt/,verb,"to try to do something challenging or
difficult", english words ngsl 687,son,/sʌn/,noun,"male child; friendly
way of addressing a boy", english words ngsl
688,simple,/sɪm•pl/,adj,"not hard to understand or do; not complex",
english words ngsl 689,medium,/miː•djəm/,noun,"middle size, something
between other things", english words ngsl
690,average,/æ•və•rɪdʒ/,adj,"typical or normal; usual; ordinary",
english words ngsl 691,stock,/stɑk/,noun,"piece of a business bought in
the form of shares", english words ngsl
692,management,/mæ•nɪdʒ•mənt/,noun,"people who are in control of a
business or group", english words ngsl
693,character,/kæ•rɪk•tə/,noun,"your personality or nature", english
words ngsl 694,bed,/bɛd/,noun,"a piece of furniture that people sleep
on", english words ngsl 695,hit,/hɪt/,verb,"to fight, attack or damage
something or someone", english words ngsl
696,establish,/ɪs•tæb•lɪʃ/,verb,"to set or create something to last for
a long time", english words ngsl 697,indeed,/ɪn•diːd/,adv,"actually; in
fact; in reality", english words ngsl 698,final,/faɪ•nL/,adj,"being the
last thing in a series", english words ngsl
699,economy,/iː•kɑ•nə•mɪ/,noun,"total of all the goods, services, and
wages in an area", english words ngsl 700,fit,/fɪt/,adj,"proper or
acceptable; morally or socially correct", english words ngsl
701,guy,/gaɪ/,noun,"informal man; boy; any person", english words ngsl
702,function,/fʌŋ•kʃən/,noun,"what something is intended to be used for;
purpose", english words ngsl 703,yesterday,/jɛs•tə•dɪ/,adv,"day before
today", english words ngsl 704,image,/ɪ•mɪdʒ/,noun,"picture, sculpture,
or painting of something", english words ngsl 705,size,/saɪz/,noun,"how
big or small a thing is", english words ngsl
706,behavior,/bɪ•heɪv•jɚ/,noun,"way a person or thing acts; manner",
english words ngsl 707,addition,/ə•dɪ•ʃən/,noun,"fact of adding
something; thing that is added", english words ngsl
708,determine,/dɪ•tɚ•mɪn/,verb,"to control exactly how something will be
or act", english words ngsl 709,station,/stɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"place where you
can catch a train or a bus", english words ngsl
710,population,/pɑ•pjʊ•lɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"number of people who live in a
country, area, etc.", english words ngsl 711,fail,/fɛɪl/,verb,"to not
achieve a goal, or to go wrong", english words ngsl
712,environment,/ɪn•vaɪ•ə•rən•mənt/,noun,"natural world in which plants
and animals live", english words ngsl
713,production,/prə•dʌk•ʃən/,noun,"process of making something on a
large scale", english words ngsl 714,contract,/kən•trækt/,noun,"legal
agreement (e.g., for doing work for money)", english words ngsl
715,player,/plɛɪ•ə/,noun,"person who plays sports", english words ngsl
716,comment,/kɑ•mɛnt/,noun,"something you say; give an opinion; remark",
english words ngsl 717,enter,/ɛn•tə/,verb,"to go into a room", english
words ngsl 718,occur,/ə•kɚ/,verb,"to come to pass or to happen", english
words ngsl 719,alone,/ə•loʊn/,adv,"without anyone or anything else",
english words ngsl 720,significant,/sɪg•nɪ•fɪ•kənt/,adj,"large enough to
be noticed or have an effect; important", english words ngsl
721,drug,/drʌg/,noun,"chemical used as a medicine", english words ngsl
722,wall,/woɚl/,noun,"high, flat side of a room or building", english
words ngsl 723,series,/siːɚ•riːz/,noun,"number of things that happen one
after another", english words ngsl 724,direct,/dɪ•rɛkt/,verb,"to tell
someone to do something in a straight-talking way", english words ngsl
725,success,/sək•sɛs/,noun,"achievement of a desired purpose or goal",
english words ngsl 726,tomorrow,/tə•mɑ•roʊ/,adv,"day after today",
english words ngsl 727,director,/dɪ•rɛk•tə/,noun,"senior person who
manages part of an organization", english words ngsl
728,clearly,/kliːɚlɪ/,adv,"in a way that is easy to understand;
obviously", english words ngsl 729,lack,/læk/,verb,"to not have, or not
have enough, of something", english words ngsl
730,review,/rɪ•vju/,verb,"to carefully look at the quality of
something", english words ngsl 731,depend,/dɪ•pɛnd/,verb,"to need
(someone or something) for support, help, etc.", english words ngsl
732,race,/rɛɪs/,noun,"contest between people, animals, or vehicles, to
determine which is the fastest", english words ngsl
733,recognize,/rɛ•kəg•naɪz/,verb,"to remember because you have met it
before", english words ngsl 734,window,/wɪn•doʊ/,noun,"opening in a wall
or door to let in light", english words ngsl
735,purpose,/pɚ•pəs/,noun,"reason for which something is done; aim;
goal", english words ngsl 736,department,/dɪ•pɑɚt•mənt/,noun,"division
of a larger part or organization", english words ngsl
737,gain,/gɛɪn/,verb,"to get something wanted, needed, or valued",
english words ngsl 738,tree,/triː/,noun,"tall green plants in a forest",
english words ngsl 739,college,/kɑ•lɪdʒ/,noun,"school or educational
institution for adults", english words ngsl 740,argue,/ɑɚ•gju/,verb,"to
give reasons for or against an idea or point of view", english words
ngsl 741,board,/boɚd/,noun,"surface for posting or showing information",
english words ngsl 742,holiday,/hɑ•lə•dɪ/,noun,"day when people don't go
to work or school", english words ngsl 743,mark,/mɑɚk/,verb,"to make or
leave a visible sign on something; a writing symbol", english words ngsl
744,church,/tʃɚtʃ/,noun,"building where religious people gather and
pray", english words ngsl 745,machine,/mə•ʃiːn/,noun,"piece of equipment
used to do work", english words ngsl 746,achieve,/ə•tʃiːv/,verb,"to
succeed in doing something good, usually by working hard", english words
ngsl 747,item,/aɪ•tɛm/,noun,"distinct, individual thing, often part of a
group", english words ngsl 748,prove,/pruv/,verb,"to demonstrate truth
by providing evidence", english words ngsl 749,cent,/sɛnt/,noun,"100th
of the basic unit of money (e.g., there are 100 of these in a dollar)",
english words ngsl 750,season,/siː•zn/,noun,"one of the four parts of
the year determined mainly by the weather during that time", english
words ngsl 751,floor,/floɚ/,noun,"part of a room on which you stand",
english words ngsl 752,stuff,/stʌf/,noun,"generic description for
things, materials, objects", english words ngsl
753,wide,/waɪd/,adj,"having a great distance from one side to the
other", english words ngsl 754,anyone,/ɛ•nɪ•wʌn/,pron,"any person",
english words ngsl 755,method,/mɛ•θəd/,noun,"organized and planned way
of doing something", english words ngsl
756,analysis,/ə'næləsɪs/,noun,"careful study to better understand
something", english words ngsl 757,election,/ɪ•lɛk•ʃən/,noun,"process of
choosing someone by voting", english words ngsl
758,military,/mɪ•lɪ•tə•rɪ/,noun,"concerning soldiers or the armed
forces", english words ngsl 759,hotel,/hoʊ•tɛl/,noun,"place where people
can stay when traveling", english words ngsl 760,club,/klʌb/,noun,"group
of people who share an interest, as in sport", english words ngsl
761,below,/bɪ•loʊ/,adv,"in a lower position, place, or level", english
words ngsl 762,movie,/mu•vɪ/,noun,"motion picture; film", english words
ngsl 763,doctor,/dɑk•tə/,noun,"a professional who is trained and
licensed to treat sick or injured people; a person who has the highest
degree given by a university", english words ngsl
764,discussion,/dɪs•kʌ•ʃən/,noun,"any long communication about some
particular topic", english words ngsl 765,sorry,/sɑ•rɪ/,intj,"what you
say to admit you were wrong", english words ngsl
766,challenge,/tʃæ•lɪndʒ/,noun,"an activity you wish to try that may be
hard to do", english words ngsl 767,nation,/nɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"area or
region controlled by a government and army", english words ngsl
768,nearly,/niːɚlɪ/,adv,"not completely; almost", english words ngsl
769,statement,/stɛɪt•mənt/,noun,"act or process of saying something
formally", english words ngsl 770,link,/lɪŋk/,verb,"to join or connect
together", english words ngsl 771,despite,/dɪs•paɪt/,prep,"without being
affected by something; in spite of", english words ngsl
772,introduce,/ɪn•trə•djus/,verb,"to make someone known to another by
name", english words ngsl 773,advantage,/əd•vɑɚn•tɪdʒ/,noun,"thing
making the chance of success higher", english words ngsl
774,ready,/rɛ•dɪ/,adj,"prepared to do something", english words ngsl
775,marry,/mæ•rɪ/,verb,"to become the husband or wife of someone",
english words ngsl 776,strike,/straɪk/,verb,"to hit something", english
words ngsl 777,mile,/maɪl/,noun,"unit of distance; 1.6 kilometers",
english words ngsl 778,seek,/siːk/,verb,"to search for; to try to find;
look for", english words ngsl 779,ability,/ə•bɪ•lɪ•tɪ/,noun,"power,
money, knowledge, or skill to do something", english words ngsl
780,unit,/ju•nɪt/,noun,"single thing or person; a part of something
larger", english words ngsl 781,card,/kɑɚd/,noun,"small piece of paper
or plastic used as i.d.", english words ngsl
782,hospital,/hɑs•pɪ•tl/,noun,"building for sick people, with doctors
and nurses", english words ngsl 783,quickly,/kwɪklɪ/,adv,"without taking
a lot of time; fast", english words ngsl
784,interview,/ɪn•tə•vju/,verb,"to formally ask questions about a given
topic", english words ngsl 785,agreement,/ə•griː•mənt/,noun,"when you
share the same opinion or reach a decision", english words ngsl
786,release,/rɪ•liːs/,verb,"to allow to leave jail, cage, prison, etc.",
english words ngsl 787,tax,/tæks/,noun,"money taken by a government from
its people", english words ngsl 788,solution,/sə•lu•ʃən/,noun,"something
that ends a problem", english words ngsl
789,capital,/kæ•pɪ•tl/,adj,"main, or major", english words ngsl
790,popular,/pɑ•pjʊ•lə/,adj,"liked or enjoyed by many people", english
words ngsl 791,specific,/spɪ•sɪ•fɪk/,adj,"special or particular; clearly
presented or stated", english words ngsl
792,beautiful,/bju•tə•fʊl/,adj,"having very attractive or appealing
physical qualities", english words ngsl 793,fear,/fiːɚ/,noun,"unpleasant
feelings caused by being aware of danger", english words ngsl
794,aim,/ɛɪm/,noun,"act of pointing something at a target", english
words ngsl 795,television,/tɛ•lɪ•vɪ•ʒən/,noun,"device that broadcasts
programs, movies, or show", english words ngsl
796,serious,/siːɚ•riːɚs/,adj,"needing thought or concentration;
important; in a sober manner", english words ngsl
797,target,/tɑɚ•gɪt/,noun,"a goal or amount you are trying to achieve",
english words ngsl 798,degree,/dɪ•griː/,noun,"unit for measuring
temperature or angles", english words ngsl 799,pull,/pʊl/,verb,"to hold
something and move it toward you", english words ngsl
800,red,/rɛd/,adj,"being the color of blood", english words ngsl
801,husband,/hʌz•bənd/,noun,"married man", english words ngsl
802,access,/æk•sɛs/,noun,"an entrance to a place; a way in", english
words ngsl 803,movement,/muv•mənt/,noun,"part of a piece of music",
english words ngsl 804,treat,/triːt/,verb,"to act in a certain way
toward someone", english words ngsl
805,identify,/aɪ•dɛn•tɪ•faɪ/,verb,"to indicate who or what someone or
something is", english words ngsl 806,loss,/lɑs/,noun,"experience or
state of failing to have or keep", english words ngsl
807,shall,/ʃæl/,aux,"expressing the future tense, to expect to happen",
english words ngsl 808,modern,/mɑ•dən/,adj,"of the present time; up to
date; contemporary", english words ngsl
809,pressure,/prɛ•ʃə/,noun,"force/weight when pressing against a thing",
english words ngsl 810,bus,/bʌs/,noun,"a large road vehicle used for
carrying many people", english words ngsl
811,treatment,/triːt•mənt/,noun,"way someone acts toward another",
english words ngsl 812,yourself,/joɚ•sɛlf/,pron,"reflexive form of
'you', used for an emphasis", english words ngsl
813,supply,/sə•plaɪ/,verb,"to give or sell goods to others for their
use", english words ngsl 814,village,/vɪ•lɪdʒ/,noun,"small town in the
country", english words ngsl 815,worth,/wɚθ/,noun,"how much something is
worth; the value of something", english words ngsl
816,natural,/næ•tʃrəl/,adj,"not made by humans; without human
intervention", english words ngsl 817,express,/ɪks•prɛs/,verb,"to state
or show what you think or how you feel", english words ngsl
818,indicate,/ɪn•dɪ•kɛɪt/,verb,"to show something, direct attention to,
or point out", english words ngsl 819,attend,/ə•tɛnd/,verb,"to be
present at an event", english words ngsl 820,brother,/brʌ•ðə/,noun,"a
boy or man who shares a parent with you", english words ngsl
821,investment,/ɪn•vɛs•tmənt/,noun,"something purchased hoping its value
will increase", english words ngsl 822,score,/skoɚ/,verb,"to get points
in a sport such as kicking a ball into a goal", english words ngsl
823,organize,/oɚ•gə•naɪz/,verb,"to arrange and plan things (e.g., a
party)", english words ngsl 824,trip,/trɪp/,noun,"journey or visit to a
place", english words ngsl 825,beyond,/bɪ•jɑnd/,adv,"on or to the
farther side; in addition to", english words ngsl
826,sleep,/sliːp/,verb,"to rest your body in bed, as at night time",
english words ngsl 827,fish,/fɪʃ/,noun,"animal that swims and lives in
the sea", english words ngsl 828,promise,/prɑ•mɪs/,verb,"to say you will
certainly do something", english words ngsl
829,potential,/pə•tɛn•ʃəl/,adj,"capable of happening or becoming
reality", english words ngsl 830,energy,/ɛ•nə•dʒɪ/,noun,"physical or
mental strength", english words ngsl 831,trouble,/trʌ•bl/,noun,"state of
difficulty or stress", english words ngsl
832,relation,/rɪ•lɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"manner in which people, groups, or
countries behave toward one another", english words ngsl
833,touch,/tʌtʃ/,verb,"to feel an object with your fingers, etc.",
english words ngsl 834,file,/faɪl/,verb,"to submit documents to an
authority (e.g., city hall)", english words ngsl
835,middle,/mɪ•dl/,noun,"place that is halfway between two things",
english words ngsl 836,bar,/bɑɚ/,verb,"to prevent entry, exit, or an
action", english words ngsl 837,suffer,/sʌ•fə/,verb,"to experience pain,
illness, or injury", english words ngsl
838,strategy,/stræ•tɪ•dʒɪ/,noun,"careful plan or method for achieving a
goal", english words ngsl 839,deep,/diːp/,adj,"going far down from the
surface", english words ngsl 840,except,/ɪk•sɛpt/,prep,"not including;
other than", english words ngsl 841,clean,/kliːn/,adj,"being free from
dirt or marks because it was washed", english words ngsl
842,tend,/tɛnd/,verb,"to regularly behave in a certain way", english
words ngsl 843,advance,/əd•vɑɚns/,verb,"to move forward in a certain
direction", english words ngsl 844,fill,/fɪl/,verb,"to make something
full", english words ngsl 845,star,/stɑɚ/,noun,"a bright planet of gas
in the night sky", english words ngsl 846,network,/nɛtwɚk/,noun,"system
of connections", english words ngsl
847,generally,/dʒɛnrəlɪ/,adv,"usually; as a rule; by, to, or for most
people", english words ngsl
848,operation,/ɑ•pə•rɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"functioning; use", english words ngsl
849,match,/mætʃ/,noun,"a sports competition between two people or
teams", english words ngsl 850,avoid,/ə•voɪd/,verb,"to prevent from
happening, or stay away from", english words ngsl
851,seat,/siːt/,noun,"something on which a person can sit", english
words ngsl 852,throw,/θroʊ/,verb,"to use your arm to make a thing fly
through the air", english words ngsl 853,task,/tɑɚsk/,noun,"big or small
piece of work someone has to do", english words ngsl
854,normal,/noɚ•məl/,adj,"standard or regular way of doing something",
english words ngsl 855,goal,/goʊl/,noun,"something you try to do or
achieve; an aim", english words ngsl
856,associate,/ə•soʊ•ʃɪ•ɛɪt/,noun,"partner in professional work (e.g.,
in law)", english words ngsl 857,blue,/blu/,adj,"color of the clear
sky", english words ngsl 858,positive,/pɑ•zə•tɪv/,adj,"good or useful in
qualities, constructive, confident", english words ngsl
859,option,/ɑp•ʃən/,noun,"possibility out of several that can be chosen;
choice", english words ngsl 860,box,/bɑks/,noun,"a container with
(usually) four straight sides and a lid", english words ngsl
861,huge,/hjudʒ/,adj,"very very large", english words ngsl
862,message,/mɛ•sɪdʒ/,noun,"piece of information that is told/given to
someone", english words ngsl 863,instance,/ɪn•stəns/,noun,"an example of
something; case", english words ngsl 864,style,/staɪl/,noun,"the
particular way something is done or made", english words ngsl
865,refer,/rɪ•fɚ/,verb,"to talk about or write about something", english
words ngsl 866,cold,/koʊld/,adj,"having a very low temperature", english
words ngsl 867,push,/pʊʃ/,verb,"to force something away from you",
english words ngsl 868,quarter,/kwoɚ•tə/,noun,"one of four equal parts
of something", english words ngsl 869,assume,/ə•sjum/,verb,"to believe,
based on the evidence; suppose", english words ngsl
870,baby,/bɛɪ•bɪ/,noun,"very young child, who cannot yet speak", english
words ngsl 871,successful,/sək'sɛsfəl/,adj,"having the desired effect or
result", english words ngsl 872,sing,/sɪŋ/,verb,"to make musical sounds
with your voice", english words ngsl 873,doubt,/daʊt/,noun,"not being
sure of something; lack of certainty", english words ngsl
874,competition,/kɑm•pɪ•tɪ•ʃən/,noun,"fighting against others when
trying to win something", english words ngsl
875,theory,/θiːɚ•rɪ/,noun,"idea or set of ideas that try to explain
facts or events", english words ngsl 876,propose,/prə•poʊz/,verb,"to
offer or put forward an idea for consideration", english words ngsl
877,reference,/rɛ•frəns/,verb,"to cite a piece of research in speech or
in writing", english words ngsl 878,argument,/ɑɚ•gjʊ•mənt/,noun,"a
discussion in which you disagree with another's opinion", english words
ngsl 879,adult,/æ•dʌlt/,noun,"person or animal that is fully grown",
english words ngsl 880,fly,/flaɪ/,verb,"to travel through the air using
wings", english words ngsl 881,document,/dɑ•kjʊ•mɛnt/,noun,"official
(printed) record that gives information", english words ngsl
882,pattern,/pæ•tən/,noun,"regular repeated behavior", english words
ngsl 883,application,/æp•lɪ•kɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"formal request for a job,
building permission, etc.", english words ngsl 884,hot,/hɑt/,adj,"having
a high temperature", english words ngsl
885,obviously,/ɑbviːɚslɪ/,adv,"in a way that is obvious/easy to see or
understand", english words ngsl 886,unclear,/ʌn•kliɚ/,adj,"not easy to
understand; not obvious", english words ngsl 887,bill,/bɪl/,noun,"piece
of paper showing what you have to pay", english words ngsl
888,search,/sɚtʃ/,verb,"to carefully look for something", english words
ngsl 889,separate,/sɛ•pə•rɛɪt/,adj,"to divide into parts, or to make
something divide into parts", english words ngsl
890,central,/sɛn•trəl/,adj,"being in the middle", english words ngsl
891,career,/kə•riːɚ/,noun,"particular occupation in professional life",
english words ngsl 892,anyway,/ɛ•nɪ•wɛɪ/,adv,"a word people use to
change the topic of a conversation", english words ngsl
893,speech,/spiːtʃ/,noun,"expression of ideas or opinions", english
words ngsl 894,dog,/dɑg/,noun,"small 4-legged animal that barks kept as
a pet", english words ngsl 895,officer,/ɑ•fɪ•sə/,noun,"person with an
important position in an organization", english words ngsl
896,throughout,/θru•aʊt/,prep,"over or across an entire thing or place,
or in every part of something", english words ngsl
897,oil,/oɪl/,noun,"thick, black liquid in the ground used as fuel",
english words ngsl 898,dress,/drɛs/,noun,"women's garment with a top
part and a skirt", english words ngsl 899,profit,/prɑ•fɪt/,verb,"to earn
money from something", english words ngsl 900,guess,/gɛs/,verb,"to give
an answer without knowing if it is correct", english words ngsl
901,fun,/fʌn/,adj,"amusing and enjoyable", english words ngsl
902,protect,/prə•tɛkt/,verb,"to defend someone or something from harm or
danger", english words ngsl 903,resource,/rɪ•soɚs/,noun,"essential
supply of something", english words ngsl
904,science,/saɪəns/,noun,"knowledge of the physical world based on
facts", english words ngsl 905,disease,/dɪ•ziːz/,noun,"illness that
affects a person, animal, or plant", english words ngsl
906,balance,/bæ•ləns/,verb,"to make two or more things equal", english
words ngsl 907,damage,/dæ•mɪdʒ/,noun,"physical harm that is done to
something", english words ngsl 908,basis,/bɛɪ•sɪs/,noun,"starting
situation, fact, idea to develop from", english words ngsl
909,author,/oɚ•θə/,noun,"person who writes books, plays, poems, etc.",
english words ngsl 910,basic,/bɛɪ•sɪk/,adj,"at the most important or
easiest (beginner) level", english words ngsl
911,encourage,/ɪn•kʌ•rɪdʒ/,verb,"to make someone more determined or
confident", english words ngsl 912,hair,/hɛɚ/,noun,"long thin strands on
your head or body", english words ngsl
913,male,/mɛɪl/,adj,"characteristic of boys or men", english words ngsl
914,operate,/ɑ•pə•rɛɪt/,verb,"to be working or being used", english
words ngsl 915,reflect,/rɪ•flɛkt/,verb,"to bounce back off a surface
(e.g., light)", english words ngsl 916,exercise,/ɛk•sə•saɪz/,noun,"to
work out to become stronger and healthier", english words ngsl
917,useful,/jusfəl/,adj,"that can help with a particular task", english
words ngsl 918,restaurant,/rɛstrɑnt/,noun,"place where you can order,
buy and eat a meal", english words ngsl 919,income,/ɪn•kəm/,noun,"earned
money from work, investments, or business", english words ngsl
920,property,/prɑ•pə•tɪ/,noun,"things, buildings, or pieces of land
owned by someone", english words ngsl
921,previous,/priː•vjəs/,adj,"existing or happening before the present
time", english words ngsl 922,dark,/dɑɚk/,adj,"having little or no
light; not light in color", english words ngsl
923,imagine,/ɪ•mæ•dʒɪn/,verb,"to think creatively about; form a mental
picture of", english words ngsl 924,okay,/oʊ•kɛɪ/,intj,"yes; alright",
english words ngsl 925,earn,/ɚn/,verb,"to get money for work", english
words ngsl 926,daughter,/doɚ•tə/,noun,"a female child of someone",
english words ngsl 927,post,/poʊst/,verb,"to send a letter or package
using the post office", english words ngsl
928,newspaper,/njus•pɛɪ•pə/,noun,"sheets of paper (or online) containing
news stories", english words ngsl 929,define,/dɪ•faɪn/,verb,"to explain
the meaning of words", english words ngsl
930,conclusion,/kən•klu•ʒən/,noun,"judgment or opinion after thinking
for a while", english words ngsl 931,clock,/klɑk/,noun,"a device that
shows the time", english words ngsl
932,everybody,/ɛ•vrɪ•bɑ•dɪ/,pron,"every person; everyone", english words
ngsl 933,weekend,/wiːk'ɛnd/,noun,"Saturday and Sunday", english words
ngsl 934,perform,/pɚ•foɚm/,verb,"to carry out an action well or
successfully", english words ngsl
935,professional,/prə•fɛ•ʃə•nL/,adj,"about a job such as a doctor,
lawyer, accountant, etc.", english words ngsl 936,mine,/maɪn/,pron,"that
thing that belongs to me", english words ngsl
937,debate,/dɪ•bɛɪt/,noun,"general public discussion of a topic",
english words ngsl 938,memory,/mɛ•mə•rɪ/,noun,"something that has been
remembered", english words ngsl 939,green,/griːn/,noun,"color of young
leaves", english words ngsl 940,song,/sɑŋ/,noun,"some music with words
in verse", english words ngsl 941,object,/əb•dʒɛkt/,verb,"to disagree;
to protest against an idea or plan", english words ngsl
942,maintain,/mɛn•tɛɪn/,verb,"to keep, exist or continue without
changing", english words ngsl 943,credit,/krɛ•dɪt/,noun,"system to buy
something and pay for it later", english words ngsl
944,ring,/rɪŋ/,verb,"to produce a sound from a bell, alarm, or
telephone; a piece of jewelry worn on a finger", english words ngsl
945,discover,/dɪs•kʌ•və/,verb,"to find something new that was not known
before", english words ngsl 946,dead,/dɛd/,adj,"not alive", english
words ngsl 947,afternoon,/ɑɚf•tə•nun/,noun,"time after 12:00 and before
the evening meal", english words ngsl 948,prefer,/prɪ•fɚ/,verb,"to like
something better than something else", english words ngsl
949,extend,/ɪks•tɛnd/,verb,"to straighten or stretch something out
(e.g., your leg)", english words ngsl
950,possibility,/pɑ•sə•bɪ•lɪ•tɪ/,noun,"something with a chance of
happening or being true", english words ngsl
951,direction,/dɪ•rɛk•ʃən/,noun,"describes the way you are going (e.g.,
north)", english words ngsl 952,facility,/fə•sɪ•lɪ•tɪ/,noun,"piece of
equipment or buildings with a special use", english words ngsl
953,variety,/və•raɪ•ə•tɪ/,noun,"particular types of things or persons",
english words ngsl 954,daily,/dɛɪ•lɪ/,adv,"happening every day", english
words ngsl 955,clothes,/kloʊðz/,noun,"things you wear on your body
(e.g., shirt, dress, tie)", english words ngsl
956,screen,/skriːn/,noun,"flat surface on a computer, or tv that shows
images", english words ngsl 957,track,/træk/,verb,"to follow behind
someone to see what they are doing", english words ngsl
958,dance,/dɑɚns/,verb,"to move your body rhythmically to music",
english words ngsl 959,completely,/kəm'pliːtlɪ/,adv,"in every way or as
much as possible", english words ngsl 960,female,/fiː•mɛɪl/,adj,"person
of the sex that gives birth to babies", english words ngsl
961,responsibility,/rɪs•pɑn•sə•bɪ•lɪ•t/,noun,"state of being dependable
or reliable", english words ngsl 962,original,/ə•rɪ•dʒə•nL/,adj,"being
first made, thought, or performed; fresh", english words ngsl
963,sister,/sɪs•tə/,noun,"female you share a parent with", english words
ngsl 964,rock,/rɑk/,noun,"big stone; hard, solid substance forming
mountains", english words ngsl 965,dream,/driːm/,noun,"images, thoughts,
and feelings that are experienced during sleep", english words ngsl
966,nor,/noɚ2/,conj,"used to show two things that are both untrue or do
not happen", english words ngsl
967,university,/ju•nɪ•vɚ•sɪ•tɪ/,noun,"high-level educational
institution; college", english words ngsl
968,easily,/iːzəlɪ/,adv,"without difficulty", english words ngsl
969,agency,/ɛɪ•dʒən•sɪ/,noun,"business that provides some service for
others", english words ngsl 970,dollar,/dɑ•lə/,noun,"a basic unit of
money equal to 100 cent", english words ngsl
971,garden,/gɑɚdn/,noun,"yard; ground outside your house to grow
plants", english words ngsl 972,fix,/fɪks/,verb,"to make something whole
or able to work again", english words ngsl 973,ahead,/ə•hɛd/,adv,"in or
toward the front", english words ngsl 974,cross,/krɑs/,verb,"to meet at
one point", english words ngsl 975,yeah,/jɛɚ/,intj,"yes (informal)",
english words ngsl 976,weight,/wɛɪt/,noun,"how heavy something is",
english words ngsl 977,legal,/liː•gəl/,adj,"concerning the law; allowed
by law", english words ngsl 978,proposal,/prə•poʊ•zəl/,noun,"offer or
plan to people who can decide about it", english words ngsl
979,version,/vɚʃn/,noun,"particular form of something and other forms",
english words ngsl 980,conversation,/kɑn•və•sɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"when you talk
with other people; discussion or chat", english words ngsl
981,somebody,/sʌm•bə•dɪ/,pron,"person who is not known or named",
english words ngsl 982,pound,/paʊnd/,noun,"unit of weight equal to 16
ounces or 0.4536 kg", english words ngsl
983,magazine,/mæ•gə•ziːn/,noun,"weekly or monthly publication with
pictures and stories", english words ngsl 984,shape,/ʃɛɪp/,noun,"outer
form of something, what it looks like", english words ngsl
985,sea,/siː/,noun,"place with a large amount of salt water", english
words ngsl 986,immediately,/ɪ'miːdiːɚtlɪ/,adv,"without any delay;
straight away; right (after or before)", english words ngsl
987,welcome,/wɛl•kəm/,noun,"friendly greeting to someone who has
arrived", english words ngsl 988,smile,/smaɪl/,verb,"to show happiness
by pulling up the corners of your mouth", english words ngsl
989,communication,/kə•mju•nɪ•kɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"talking to people; giving
information to people", english words ngsl
990,agent,/ɛɪ•dʒənt/,noun,"person who can represent and decide for
others", english words ngsl 991,traditional,/trə•dɪ•ʃə•nL/,adj,"involved
in a tradition", english words ngsl 992,replace,/rɪ•plɛɪs/,verb,"to use
instead of something else", english words ngsl
993,judge,/dʒʌdʒ/,verb,"to form an opinion after careful consideration",
english words ngsl 994,herself,/hɚ•sɛlf/,pron,"female person that did
the original action", english words ngsl 995,suddenly,/sʌdnlɪ/,adv,"in
an unexpected or very quick manner", english words ngsl
996,generation,/dʒɛ•nə•rɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"people born and living at about
the same time", english words ngsl 997,estimate,/ɛs•tɪ•mɛɪt/,noun,"guess
or calculation of cost, size, or value", english words ngsl
998,favorite,/feɪv•rət/,adj,"most liked; best loved", english words ngsl
999,difficulty,/dɪ•fɪ•kəl•tɪ/,noun,"something that is hard to do",
english words ngsl 1000,purchase,/pɚ•tʃəs/,verb,"to buy something; to
get by paying money for it", english words ngsl
1001,shoot,/ʃut/,verb,"to kick or throw a ball at a goal", english words
ngsl 1002,announce,/ə•naʊns/,verb,"to make a public statement about a
plan, decision", english words ngsl 1003,unless,/ən•lɛs/,conj,"negative
of 'if'", english words ngsl
1004,independent,/ɪn•dɪ•pɛn•dənt/,adj,"making your own decisions; not
controlled by others", english words ngsl
1005,recommend,/rɛ•kə•mɛnd/,verb,"to say something is good and deserves
to be chosen", english words ngsl 1006,survey,/sɚ•vɛɪ/,verb,"to ask
people a question about a particular topic", english words ngsl
1007,majority,/mə•dʒɑ•rɪ•tɪ/,noun,"amount that is more than half of a
group", english words ngsl 1008,stick,/stɪk/,noun,"long thin piece of
wood from a tree", english words ngsl 1009,request,/rɪ•kwɛst/,verb,"to
ask for something", english words ngsl 1010,rich,/rɪtʃ/,adj,"having a
lot of money, possessions, or resources", english words ngsl
1011,wind,/waɪnd/,noun,"natural movement of outside air as part of the
weather", english words ngsl 1012,none,/noʊn/,pron,"not one of a group;
not at all or in no way", english words ngsl
1013,exchange,/ɪks•tʃɛɪndʒ/,verb,"to give things of similar value to
each other", english words ngsl 1014,budget,/bʌ•dʒɪt/,noun,"amount of
money planned to be spent on something", english words ngsl
1015,famous,/fɛɪ•məs/,adj,"widely known; recognized by many people",
english words ngsl 1016,blood,/blʌd/,noun,"red liquid in the bodies of
people and animals", english words ngsl
1017,appropriate,/ə•proʊ•prɪ•ɛɪt/,adj,"right or suitable for some
situation or purpose", english words ngsl 1018,block,/blɑk/,verb,"to
stop from going forward or making progress", english words ngsl
1019,warm,/woɚm/,adj,"slightly hot; not very hot", english words ngsl
1020,count,/kaʊnt/,verb,"to add things together to find the total
number", english words ngsl 1021,scene,/siːn/,noun,"part of an act in a
play", english words ngsl 1022,writer,/raɪ•tə/,noun,"professional who
writes books, articles, etc.", english words ngsl
1023,content,/kən•tɛnt/,noun,"information in something (e.g., a book or
computer program)", english words ngsl 1024,prevent,/priː•vɛnt/,verb,"to
stop something from happening or existing", english words ngsl
1025,safe,/sɛɪf/,adj,"being out of danger", english words ngsl
1026,invite,/ɪn•vaɪt/,verb,"to ask someone to go somewhere or do
something", english words ngsl 1027,mix,/mɪks/,verb,"to combine two or
more things to make one", english words ngsl
1028,element,/ɛ•lɪ•mənt/,noun,"essential or particular part of
something", english words ngsl 1029,effective,/ɪ•fɛk•tɪv/,adj,"working
efficiently to produce a desired result", english words ngsl
1030,correct,/kə•rɛkt/,adj,"true or accurate", english words ngsl
1031,medical,/mɛ•dɪ•kəl/,adj,"of or relating to physical health or
medicine", english words ngsl 1032,admit,/əd•mɪt/,verb,"to agree that
you did something bad, or that something bad is true", english words
ngsl 1033,beat,/biːt/,verb,"to win against another person or team;
defeat", english words ngsl 1034,telephone,/tɛ•lɪ•foʊn/,noun,"machine
used to talk to someone who is far away", english words ngsl
1035,copy,/kɑ•pɪ/,verb,"to make something that looks the same as the
original", english words ngsl 1036,committee,/kə•mɪ•tɪ/,noun,"group of
people who do or decide something", english words ngsl
1037,aware,/ə•wɛɚ/,adj,"knowing or feeling that something exists",
english words ngsl 1038,advice,/əd•vaɪs/,noun,"suggestion about what
someone should do", english words ngsl 1039,handle,/hæn•dl/,verb,"to
have the ability to cope with or take responsibility for", english words
ngsl 1040,glass,/glɑɚs/,noun,"hard transparent material used for making
windows", english words ngsl 1041,trial,/traɪ•əl/,noun,"concerning or
used in a trial", english words ngsl 1042,stress,/strɛs/,verb,"to be in
a state of mental tension due to problems", english words ngsl
1043,radio,/rɛɪ•dɪ•oʊ/,noun,"system for sending and receiving signals
through the air", english words ngsl
1044,administration,/əd•mɪ•nɪs•trɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"the work of running
something (e.g., a business)", english words ngsl
1045,complex,/kɑm•plɛks/,adj,"difficult, not easy to understand or
explain", english words ngsl 1046,text,/tɛkst/,noun,"written part of a
book or other work", english words ngsl
1047,context,/kɑn•tɛkst/,noun,"set of facts surrounding a person or
event", english words ngsl 1048,ride,/raɪd/,verb,"to sit on and control
a horse or vehicle", english words ngsl
1049,directly,/dɪ•rɛk•tlɪ/,adv,"in a frank and honest way", english
words ngsl 1050,heavy,/hɛ•vɪ/,adj,"having a lot of weight", english
words ngsl 1051,remove,/rɪ•muv/,verb,"to move, erase or take away from a
place", english words ngsl 1052,conduct,/kən•dʌkt/,verb,"to direct, lead
or guide something", english words ngsl
1053,equipment,/ɪ•kwɪp•mənt/,noun,"tools or materials used to perform a
task", english words ngsl 1054,otherwise,/ʌ•ðə•waɪz/,adv,"indicates that
there will be a bad result if something is done, not done, or done
improperly", english words ngsl 1055,title,/taɪ•tl/,noun,"name given to
something to identify or describe it", english words ngsl
1056,extra,/ɛks•trə/,adj,"more than necessary; additional", english
words ngsl 1057,executive,/ɪg•zɛ•kjʊ•tɪv/,noun,"a senior manager in a
business or organization", english words ngsl 1058,chair,/tʃɛɚ/,noun,"a
piece of furniture you sit on when sitting at a table or desk", english
words ngsl 1059,expensive,/ɪks•pɛn•sɪv/,adj,"costing a lot of money",
english words ngsl 1060,sample,/sɑɚm•pl/,verb,"to try something to see
if you like it (e.g., food)", english words ngsl
1061,sex,/sɛks/,noun,"state of being male or female mostly biological",
english words ngsl 1062,deliver,/dɪ•lɪ•və/,verb,"to take something to a
person or place", english words ngsl 1063,video,/vɪdɪoʊ/,noun,"recording
capturing action with sound", english words ngsl
1064,connection,/kə•nɛk•ʃən/,noun,"something that joins things together;
being joined", english words ngsl 1065,primary,/praɪ•mə•rɪ/,adj,"most
important, most basic or essential", english words ngsl
1066,weather,/wɛ•ðə/,noun,"whether it is raining, sunny, cold, etc.,
outside", english words ngsl 1067,collect,/kə•lɛkt/,verb,"to gather
things/people together in one place", english words ngsl
1068,inform,/ɪn•foɚm/,verb,"to give information or facts about
something", english words ngsl 1069,principle,/prɪn•sə•pl/,noun,"strong
belief that influences a person's actions; basic law or belief", english
words ngsl 1070,straight,/strɛɪt/,adj,"not having curves, bends, or
angles", english words ngsl 1071,appeal,/ə•piːl/,verb,"to request a
judge or others change a decision", english words ngsl
1072,highly,/haɪ•lɪ/,adv,"more than usual; to a great degree", english
words ngsl 1073,trust,/trʌst/,verb,"to be confident that someone is
honest and reliable", english words ngsl
1074,wonderful,/wʌndəfəl/,adj,"producing feelings of enjoyment or
delight", english words ngsl 1075,flat,/flæt/,adj,"level; even; without
curves or bumps", english words ngsl
1076,absolutely,/æb•sə•lut•lɪ/,adv,"completely; totally; very", english
words ngsl 1077,flow,/floʊ/,verb,"to move steadily and easily in a
certain direction", english words ngsl 1078,fair,/fɛɚ/,adj,"treating all
people the same way", english words ngsl
1079,additional,/ə•dɪ•ʃə•nL/,adj,"further or added", english words ngsl
1080,responsible,/rɪs•pɑn•sə•bl/,adj,"having the duty of dealing with
something; being the cause or creator of something; behaving in a mature
and reasonable manner", english words ngsl 1081,farm,/fɑɚm/,noun,"land
used for growing crops or raising animals", english words ngsl
1082,collection,/kə•lɛk•ʃən/,noun,"group of similar things gathered as a
hobby", english words ngsl 1083,hang,/hæŋ/,verb,"to attach a picture,
photograph, etc., onto a wall", english words ngsl
1084,negative,/nɛ•gə•tɪv/,adj,"being harmful, unwanted, or unhelpful",
english words ngsl 1085,band,/bænd/,noun,"group of people who work
together (e.g., play music)", english words ngsl
1086,relative,/rɛ•lə•tɪv/,noun,"measured or considered in comparison to
something else", english words ngsl 1087,tour,/tʊə/,noun,"a journey to
visit several places for pleasure", english words ngsl
1088,alternative,/oɚl•tɚ•nə•tɪv/,noun,"other choices", english words
ngsl 1089,software,/sɑftwɛɚ2/,noun,"market for software is expected to
expand", english words ngsl 1090,pair,/pɛɚ/,noun,"two of the same thing
(e.g., socks)", english words ngsl 1091,ship,/ʃɪp/,noun,"large boat",
english words ngsl 1092,attitude,/æ•tɪ•tjud/,noun,"way you act, think,
and feel about something", english words ngsl
1093,cheap,/tʃiːp/,adj,"not costing a lot of money", english words ngsl
1094,double,/dʌ•bl/,prep,"two times the amount or degree; twice",
english words ngsl 1095,leg,/lɛg/,noun,"part of the body from the thigh
down", english words ngsl 1096,observe,/əb•zɚv/,verb,"to watch
carefully; to make a comment", english words ngsl
1097,sentence,/sɛn•təns/,noun,"set of spoken or written words that make
a whole statement", english words ngsl 1098,print,/prɪnt/,verb,"to make
many copies of a page, magazine, or book", english words ngsl
1099,progress,/prə•grɛs/,verb,"to move forward or toward a place or
goal", english words ngsl 1100,truth,/truθ/,noun,"real facts about
something", english words ngsl 1101,nobody,/noʊ•bə•dɪ/,pron,"no person;
no one; not any person", english words ngsl
1102,examine,/ɪg•zæ•mɪn/,verb,"to look at someone or something very
carefully in order to learn more", english words ngsl
1103,lay,/lɛɪ/,verb,"to put or set something down in a flat position",
english words ngsl 1104,speed,/spiːd/,noun,"quality of being fast or
quick", english words ngsl 1105,politics,/pɑ•lɪ•tɪks/,noun,"activities
influencing the policies of a government", english words ngsl
1106,reply,/rɪ•plaɪ/,noun,"answer someone's question", english words
ngsl 1107,display,/dɪs•plɛɪ/,verb,"to put so they can be seen or be
bought", english words ngsl 1108,transfer,/træns•fɚ/,verb,"to move
something from one place to another", english words ngsl
1109,perfect,/pɚ•fɛkt/,adj,"so good it/they cannot be improved", english
words ngsl 1110,slightly,/slaɪtlɪ/,adv,"concerning a small quantity or
degree", english words ngsl 1111,overall,/oʊ•və•roɚl/,adj,"viewed as a
whole; in general, not as details", english words ngsl
1112,intend,/ɪn•tɛnd/,verb,"to plan or want to do something", english
words ngsl 1113,user,/ju•zə/,noun,"person that uses a service or thing
(e.g., a website)", english words ngsl 1114,respond,/rɪs•pɑnd/,verb,"to
say or write to answer the question", english words ngsl
1115,dinner,/dɪ•nə/,noun,"main meal of the day, usually in the evening
in the us", english words ngsl 1116,slow,/sloʊ/,adj,"moving or happening
without speed; not fast", english words ngsl
1117,regular,/rɛ•gjʊ•lə/,adj,"occurring or being done frequently",
english words ngsl 1118,physical,/fɪ•zɪ•kəl/,adj,"concerning the body of
a person", english words ngsl 1119,apart,/ə•pɑɚt/,adv,"separated by an
amount of time or space", english words ngsl 1120,suit,/sjut/,verb,"to
be appropriate for a given situation", english words ngsl
1121,federal,/fɛ•də•rəl/,adj,"system of government", english words ngsl
1122,reveal,/rɪ•viːl/,verb,"to make known, to show or prove", english
words ngsl 1123,percentage,/pɚ•sɛn•tɪdʒ/,noun,"part of a whole divided
into hundredths", english words ngsl 1124,peace,/piːs/,noun,"time when
there is no war or fighting", english words ngsl
1125,status,/stɛɪ•təs/,noun,"position or rank relative to others in a
society", english words ngsl 1126,crime,/kraɪm/,noun,"act that is
against the law; murder, theft, etc.", english words ngsl
1127,decline,/dɪ•klaɪn/,verb,"to not accept an invitation or offer;
refuse", english words ngsl 1128,decade,/dɛ•kɛɪd/,noun,"period of 10
years", english words ngsl 1129,launch,/loɚntʃ/,verb,"to put a rocket
into the air; put a ship into the water", english words ngsl
1130,warn,/woɚn/,verb,"to tell someone about possible danger", english
words ngsl 1131,consumer,/kən•sju•mə/,noun,"person who uses goods or
services; individual buyer", english words ngsl
1132,favor,/feɪ•vɚ/,noun,"helpful act of kindness", english words ngsl
1133,dry,/draɪ/,adj,"without water; not wet", english words ngsl
1134,partner,/pɑɚt•nə/,noun,"someone you have a business or personal
relationship with", english words ngsl
1135,institution,/ɪn•stɪ•tju•ʃən/,noun,"organization created for a
particular cause or purpose", english words ngsl
1136,spot,/spɑt/,adj,"see someone by chance", english words ngsl
1137,horse,/hoɚs/,noun,"large animal with 4 legs used for riding",
english words ngsl 1138,eventually,/ɪ'vɛntʃʊəlɪ/,adv,"finally", english
words ngsl 1139,heat,/hiːt/,verb,"to make hot or hotter", english words
ngsl 1140,excite,/ɪk•saɪt/,verb,"to make someone feel happy, interested,
or eager", english words ngsl 1141,reader,/riː•də/,noun,"person who
reads written or printed materials", english words ngsl
1142,importance,/ɪm•poɚ•təns/,noun,"being important; having a big effect
on", english words ngsl 1143,distance,/dɪs•təns/,noun,"amount of space
between two places or things", english words ngsl
1144,guide,/gaɪd/,verb,"to lead people visiting a new or unknown place",
english words ngsl 1145,grant,/grɑɚnt/,verb,"to give or let someone do
what they want", english words ngsl 1146,taxi,/tæk•sɪ/,noun,"car that
transports people for money", english words ngsl
1147,feed,/fiːd/,verb,"to give food (e.g., to an animal or a baby)",
english words ngsl 1148,pain,/pɛɪn/,noun,"strong feeling of hurt or
discomfort", english words ngsl 1149,sector,/sɛk•tə/,noun,"area that
includes certain kinds of job", english words ngsl
1150,mistake,/mɪs•tɛɪk/,noun,"something done wrong, calculated wrong.;
error", english words ngsl 1151,ensure,/ɪn•ʃʊə/,verb,"to make something
sure, certain, or safe", english words ngsl
1152,satisfy,/sæ•tɪs•faɪ/,verb,"to be happy because you met your
expectation", english words ngsl 1153,chief,/tʃiːf/,adj,"most important
one", english words ngsl 1154,cool,/kul/,adj,"almost cold; not warm or
hot", english words ngsl 1155,expert,/ɛk•spɚt/,noun,"skillful person
with special knowledge", english words ngsl 1156,wave,/wɛɪv/,verb,"to
move your hand or arm to say hello or goodbye", english words ngsl
1157,south,/saʊð/,adj,"direction that is the opposite of north", english
words ngsl 1158,labor,/leɪ•bɚ/,verb,"to work hard (often physically) for
many hours", english words ngsl 1159,surface,/sɚ•fɪs/,adj,"of the top
layer; superficial", english words ngsl
1160,library,/laɪ•brə•rɪ/,noun,"place where books and other media are
kept", english words ngsl 1161,excellent,/ɛk•sə•lənt/,adj,"extremely
good", english words ngsl 1162,edge,/ɛdʒ/,noun,"boundary of a surface",
english words ngsl 1163,camp,/kæmp/,noun,"place where people live for a
short time in tents", english words ngsl
1164,audience,/oɚ•djəns/,noun,"group of people listening, watch a play,
movie, etc.", english words ngsl 1165,lift,/lɪft/,verb,"to move
something to higher position", english words ngsl
1166,procedure,/prə•siː•dʒə/,noun,"usual or standard way in which
something is done", english words ngsl 1167,e-mail,/iː•meɪl/,noun,"a
system for sending messages electronically, especially from one computer
to another using the internet", english words ngsl
1168,global,/gloʊbl/,adj,"concerning, affecting, or involving the entire
world", english words ngsl 1169,struggle,/strʌ•gl/,verb,"to try very
hard to do something difficult", english words ngsl
1170,advertise,/æd•və•taɪz/,verb,"to show how good a product is, to make
people buy", english words ngsl 1171,select,/sɪ•lɛkt/,verb,"to choose
from a group, something most suitable", english words ngsl
1172,surround,/sə•raʊnd/,verb,"to be on every side of something",
english words ngsl 1173,extent,/ɪks•tɛnt/,noun,"range or space included
in something", english words ngsl 1174,river,/rɪ•və/,noun,"flowing water
that runs from mountains to the sea", english words ngsl
1175,annual,/æ•njʊəl/,adj,"happening once a year, or every year",
english words ngsl 1176,fully,/fʊlɪ/,adv,"completely or entirely",
english words ngsl 1177,contrast,/kən•træst/,verb,"to compare; to show
clear, obvious differences", english words ngsl
1178,roll,/roʊl/,verb,"to move along a surface by turning many times",
english words ngsl 1179,reality,/riː•æ•lɪ•tɪ/,noun,"what is true, as
opposed to what is imagined", english words ngsl
1180,photograph,/foʊ•tə•grɑɚf/,verb,"a picture made with a camera that
shows how things look in real life", english words ngsl
1181,artist,/ɑɚ•tɪst/,noun,"a person who is skilled and creative in art,
such as a painter", english words ngsl
1182,conflict,/kən•flɪkt/,verb,"to have opposite ideas; to disagree; to
not match", english words ngsl 1183,entire,/ɪn•taɪ•ə/,adj,"complete or
full; with no part left out; whole", english words ngsl
1184,presence,/prɛ•zns/,noun,"fact that someone or something is in a
particular place", english words ngsl 1185,crowd,/kraʊd/,noun,"large
group of people together in one place", english words ngsl
1186,corner,/koɚ•nə/,noun,"place where two lines, sides, corners, etc.,
meet", english words ngsl 1187,gas,/gæs/,noun,"elements in our air, like
oxygen or nitrogen", english words ngsl 1188,shift,/ʃɪft/,verb,"to
change in position or direction", english words ngsl
1189,net,/nɛt/,noun,"material made of string tied together and used to
catch fish or other small animals", english words ngsl
1190,category,/kæ•tɪ•gə•rɪ/,noun,"groups of things that are similar in
some way", english words ngsl 1191,secretary,/sɛ•krə•trɪ/,noun,"an
employee who does general office work for another person in the office",
english words ngsl 1192,defense,/dɪ•fɛns/,noun,"process of protecting
something from attack", english words ngsl 1193,quick,/kwɪk/,adj,"using
very little time; moving far in little time", english words ngsl
1194,cook,/kʊk/,verb,"to heat food until it is ready to eat", english
words ngsl 1195,spread,/sprɛd/,verb,"to place something over or cover a
large area", english words ngsl 1196,nuclear,/njuk•liːɚ/,adj,"concerning
or involving the center of an atom", english words ngsl
1197,scale,/skɛɪl/,noun,"a device that is used to weigh a person or
thing", english words ngsl 1198,driver,/draɪ•və/,noun,"someone who
operates a vehicle", english words ngsl 1199,ball,/boɚl/,noun,"small
round object often used in a game or sport", english words ngsl
1200,cry,/kraɪ/,verb,"to produce tears and sounds because of pain",
english words ngsl 1201,introduction,/ɪn•trə•dʌk•ʃən/,noun,"making
someone known to another by name", english words ngsl
1202,requirement,/rɪ•kwaɪ•ə•mənt/,noun,"something that is a necessity",
english words ngsl 1203,north,/noɚθ/,noun,"direction to your left when
facing the rising sun", english words ngsl
1204,confirm,/kən•fɚm/,verb,"to provide evidence to establish the truth
of", english words ngsl 1205,senior,/siː•njə/,adj,"having higher status
or authority than another person", english words ngsl
1206,photo,/foʊ•toʊ/,noun,"short for photograph; a picture taken by a
camera", english words ngsl 1207,refuse,/rɪ•fjuz/,verb,"to say that you
will not accept something", english words ngsl
1208,transport,/træns•poɚt/,verb,"to carry things from one place to
another", english words ngsl 1209,emerge,/ɪ•mɚdʒ/,verb,"to rise or
appear out of some background", english words ngsl
1210,map,/mæp/,noun,"picture showing the geography of an area", english
words ngsl 1211,concept,/kɑn•sɛpt/,noun,"abstract idea of something or
how it works", english words ngsl 1212,island,/aɪ•lənd/,noun,"area of
land that is surrounded by water", english words ngsl
1213,reform,/riː•foɚm/,verb,"to improve society by removing abuse and
injustices", english words ngsl 1214,neither,/naɪ•ðə/,adj,"not one or
the other; not either; none of two things", english words ngsl
1215,football,/fʊt•boɚl/,noun,"sport where 2 teams try to kick a ball in
a goal; soccer", english words ngsl 1216,survive,/sə•vaɪv/,verb,"to
continue to live despite illness or trouble", english words ngsl
1217,flight,/flaɪt/,noun,"act of flying", english words ngsl
1218,left,/lɛft/,noun,"side of your body your heart is on", english
words ngsl 1219,solve,/sɑlv/,verb,"to find a way to deal with a
problem", english words ngsl 1220,neighbor,/neɪ•bɚ/,noun,"person who
lives, or is near, you", english words ngsl
1221,background,/bæk•graʊnd/,noun,"images, color, or information behind
the main one", english words ngsl 1222,technique,/tɛk•niːk/,noun,"way of
doing by using special knowledge or skill", english words ngsl
1223,traffic,/træ•fɪk/,noun,"amount of activity over a communication
system", english words ngsl
1224,improvement,/ɪm•pruv•mənt/,noun,"addition or change that makes
something better", english words ngsl 1225,tool,/tul/,noun,"device used
to make things (e.g., a hammer or driver)", english words ngsl
1226,consequence,/kɑn•sɪ•kwəns/,noun,"outcome of an event; result",
english words ngsl 1227,circumstance,/sɚ•kəm•stəns/,noun,"condition or
fact that affects a situation", english words ngsl
1228,smoke,/smoʊk/,verb,"to breathe in through a cigarette and then blow
it out", english words ngsl 1229,reaction,/riː•æk•ʃən/,noun,"feeling or
action in response to something", english words ngsl
1230,rain,/rɛɪn/,noun,"drops of water that fall out of clouds in the
sky", english words ngsl 1231,busy,/bɪ•zɪ/,adj,"working hard doing
something; full of activity", english words ngsl
1232,lesson,/lɛ•sn/,noun,"a time or event where teaching and learning
occur; class", english words ngsl 1233,brain,/brɛɪn/,noun,"part of the
head that thinks and controls your body", english words ngsl
1234,mass,/mæs/,noun,"a large amount of something, often of no
particular shape", english words ngsl 1235,funny,/fʌ•nɪ/,adj,"causing
laughter; amusing", english words ngsl
1236,contribute,/kən•trɪ•bjut/,verb,"give something of value to or help
someone or something", english words ngsl
1237,failure,/fɛɪ•ljə/,noun,"act or result of not achieving your goals",
english words ngsl 1238,schedule,/ʃɛ•djul/,verb,"to arrange a time to do
something with others", english words ngsl
1239,speaker,/spiː•kə/,noun,"person who makes a speech before a group",
english words ngsl 1240,bottom,/bɑ•təm/,noun,"lowest part of something;
part on which it rests", english words ngsl 1241,adopt,/ə•dɑpt/,verb,"to
take on responsibility for something", english words ngsl
1242,combine,/kəm•baɪn/,verb,"to mix several things together to form one
thing", english words ngsl 1243,mountain,/maʊn•tɪn/,noun,"very high
piece of land, higher than a hill", english words ngsl
1244,waste,/wɛɪst/,verb,"to use valuable things ineffectively", english
words ngsl 1245,hide,/haɪd/,verb,"to put a thing where it can't be
found; go where you won't be found", english words ngsl
1246,marriage,/mæ•rɪdʒ/,noun,"formal relationship between a husband and
a wife", english words ngsl 1247,ticket,/tɪ•kɪt/,noun,"piece of paper
that lets you enter or use something", english words ngsl
1248,meal,/miːl/,noun,"food for eating at a particular time (e.g.,
dinner)", english words ngsl 1249,colleague,/kɑ•liːg/,noun,"someone who
works with you; coworker", english words ngsl 1250,bag,/bæg/,noun,"soft
container to put things in and carry with you", english words ngsl
1251,repeat,/rɪ•piːt/,verb,"to say something again", english words ngsl
1252,equal,/iː•kwəl/,adj,"same in shape, size, or number", english words
ngsl 1253,expression,/ɪks•prɛ•ʃən/,noun,"act of making your thoughts and
feelings known", english words ngsl 1254,plus,/plʌs/,prep,"having a
value greater than zero", english words ngsl
1255,extremely,/ɪk'striːmlɪ/,adv,"in a way that is much more than usual
or expected", english words ngsl 1256,owner,/oʊ•nə/,noun,"person who
owns or has something", english words ngsl 1257,plane,/plɛɪn/,noun,"an
airplane", english words ngsl 1258,commercial,/kə•mɚ•ʃəl/,noun,"radio or
television advertisement", english words ngsl
1259,lady,/lɛɪ•dɪ/,noun,"another way of saying 'woman'", english words
ngsl 1260,duty,/dju•tɪ/,noun,"work required by your job or position",
english words ngsl 1261,strength,/strɛŋθ/,noun,"being strong", english
words ngsl 1262,connect,/kə•nɛkt/,verb,"to join or attach things
together", english words ngsl 1263,cultural,/kʌl•tʃə•rəl/,adj,"of a
particular society's customs and beliefs", english words ngsl
1264,arrange,/ə•rɛɪndʒ/,verb,"to put things into a particular order; to
plan and organize an event", english words ngsl
1265,scheme,/skiːm/,noun,"often dishonest plan to get or do something",
english words ngsl 1266,payment,/pɛɪ•mənt/,noun,"amount of money that is
paid for something", english words ngsl
1267,unfortunately,/ʌn•foɚtʃ•nɪt•lɪ/,adv,"in a way that is to be
regretted; unluckily", english words ngsl 1268,brief,/briːf/,adj,"short;
using few words", english words ngsl 1269,bird,/bɚd/,noun,"animal with
feathers that uses wings to fly", english words ngsl
1270,demonstrate,/dɛ•məns•trɛɪt/,verb,"to show how something works
(e.g., product)", english words ngsl
1271,contribution,/kɑn•trɪ•bju•ʃən/,noun,"helping a cause by giving
money, things, services", english words ngsl
1272,appreciate,/ə•priː•ʃɪ•ɛɪt/,verb,"to be thankful for; to value or
admire", english words ngsl 1273,chapter,/tʃæp•tə/,noun,"one of the main
sections of a book", english words ngsl
1274,secret,/siː•krɪt/,adj,"something that you don't want others to
know; private", english words ngsl
1275,apparently,/ə'pærəntlɪ/,adv,"according to what you heard; from what
can be seen", english words ngsl 1276,novel,/nɑ•vəl/,noun,"written
fiction story", english words ngsl
1277,union,/juniːɚn/,noun,"organization of people or groups who have a
similar interest or particular goal", english words ngsl
1278,burn,/bɚn/,verb,"to destroy with fire", english words ngsl
1279,trend,/trɛnd/,noun,"general direction of developing, proceeding",
english words ngsl 1280,initial,/ɪ•nɪ•ʃəl/,adj,"existing or occurring at
the beginning", english words ngsl 1281,pleasure,/plɛ•ʒə/,noun,"feeling
of happiness, enjoyment, or satisfaction", english words ngsl
1282,suggestion,/sə•dʒɛs•tʃən/,noun,"idea about what someone should do",
english words ngsl 1283,critical,/krɪ•tɪ•kəl/,adj,"being important or
serious; vital; dangerous", english words ngsl
1284,gather,/gæ•ðə/,verb,"to bring people/animals together into a
group", english words ngsl 1285,mostly,/moʊs•tlɪ/,adv,"in large part;
mainly or chiefly", english words ngsl 1286,earth,/ɚθ/,noun,"planet we
live on", english words ngsl 1287,pop,/pɑp/,verb,"to cause something to
open or burst suddenly", english words ngsl
1288,essential,/ɪ•sɛn•ʃəl/,adj,"extremely important and necessary",
english words ngsl 1289,desire,/dɪ•zaɪ•ə/,verb,"to wish for, hope, or
want something", english words ngsl 1290,promote,/prə•moʊt/,verb,"to try
to encourage the popularity and sales of a product", english words ngsl
1291,currently,/kʌrəntlɪ/,adv,"happening or being in the present time",
english words ngsl 1292,employ,/ɪm•ploɪ/,verb,"to pay a person to work
for you; to give a job to", english words ngsl
1293,path,/pɑɚθ/,noun,"track made with stones/by walking over the
ground", english words ngsl 1294,topic,/tɑ•pɪk/,noun,"matter people talk
or write about", english words ngsl 1295,beach,/biːtʃ/,noun,"large area
of sand, next to an area of water", english words ngsl
1296,attract,/ə•trækt/,verb,"to make someone notice and become
interested in", english words ngsl 1297,engage,/ɪn•gɛɪdʒ/,verb,"to carry
out, participate in; be involved in", english words ngsl
1298,powerful,/paʊəfəl/,adj,"having control or influence over", english
words ngsl 1299,flower,/flaʊ•ə/,noun,"plant with a pretty head (e.g., a
rose)", english words ngsl 1300,crisis,/kraɪ•sɪs/,noun,"unstable
situation of extreme danger or difficulty", english words ngsl
1301,settle,/sɛ•tl/,verb,"to move to a new environment and become
accustomed to it", english words ngsl 1302,boat,/boʊt/,noun,"small form
of transport for traveling on water", english words ngsl
1303,aid,/ɛɪd/,verb,"to provide things useful or needed by others",
english words ngsl 1304,fan,/fæn/,noun,"thing you wave in front of your
face to stay cool", english words ngsl
1305,kitchen,/kɪ•tʃɪn/,noun,"place where food is cooked", english words
ngsl 1306,twice,/twaɪs/,adv,"two times", english words ngsl
1307,fresh,/frɛʃ/,adj,"newly made or gathered", english words ngsl
1308,delay,/dɪ•lɛɪ/,verb,"to cause something to happen later than
planned or expected", english words ngsl
1309,safety,/sɛɪf•tɪ/,noun,"state of being free from harm or danger",
english words ngsl 1310,engineer,/ɛn•dʒɪ•niːɚ/,noun,"professional who
designs and builds machines, roads, and other complicated structures",
english words ngsl 1311,quiet,/kwaɪ•ət/,adj,"not loud; making very
little sound", english words ngsl
1312,insurance,/ɪn•ʃʊə•rəns/,noun,"payments to cover potential
loss/damage/injury/death", english words ngsl
1313,nurse,/nɚs/,noun,"person trained to care for sick or injured
people", english words ngsl 1314,divide,/dɪ•vaɪd/,verb,"to separate
something into equal pieces", english words ngsl
1315,length,/lɛŋθ/,noun,"measurement of distance or of time", english
words ngsl 1316,investigation,/ɪn•vɛs•tɪ•gɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"search for
information about something", english words ngsl
1317,package,/pæ•kɪdʒ/,noun,"box or container in which items are placed
for mailing", english words ngsl 1318,somewhere,/sʌ•mwɛɚ/,adv,"at or to
an unknown or unnamed place", english words ngsl
1319,expand,/ɪks•pænd/,verb,"to become bigger or larger in size and
amount", english words ngsl 1320,commit,/kə•mɪt/,verb,"to do something
bad, usually a crime", english words ngsl
1321,obvious,/ɑb•viːɚs/,adj,"easily understood and clear; plain to see",
english words ngsl 1322,jump,/dʒʌmp/,verb,"to push your body into the
air with your legs", english words ngsl
1323,weapon,/wɛ•pən/,noun,"something that is used for fighting", english
words ngsl 1324,relatively,/rɛlətɪvlɪ/,adv,"in a manner that measures or
compares something to something else", english words ngsl
1325,host,/hoʊst/,noun,"person who entertains guests", english words
ngsl 1326,winter,/wɪn•tə/,noun,"coldest season of the year", english
words ngsl 1327,district,/dɪs•trɪkt/,noun,"area of a country, city, or
town", english words ngsl 1328,broad,/broɚd/,adj,"wide; from the shorter
two sides to the other", english words ngsl 1329,tire,/taɪ•ə/,noun,"lose
energy and feel that you need to rest", english words ngsl
1330,spring,/sprɪŋ/,noun,"time of year when plants start growing after
winter", english words ngsl 1331,spirit,/spɪ•rɪt/,noun,"part of a person
that is not physical and believed to be the source of human emotions and
character", english words ngsl 1332,lunch,/lʌntʃ/,noun,"light meal eaten
in the middle of the day", english words ngsl
1333,actual,/æk•tjʊəl/,adj,"real or existing in fact, not imagined;
real", english words ngsl 1334,pool,/pul/,noun,"large container or hole
that is filled with water and used for people to swim in", english words
ngsl 1335,battle,/bæ•tl/,noun,"military fight between armies", english
words ngsl 1336,tradition,/trə•dɪ•ʃən/,noun,"way of thinking, and
behaving that was used for a long time", english words ngsl
1337,cash,/kæʃ/,noun,"physical money (not credit card or digital)",
english words ngsl 1338,hardly,/hɑɚdlɪ/,adv,"clearly or undoubtedly not;
very little", english words ngsl 1339,award,/ə•woɚd/,verb,"to give a
prize for doing something well", english words ngsl
1340,coach,/koʊtʃ/,noun,"person who teaches others how to do (sport,
job)", english words ngsl 1341,experiment,/ɪks•pɛ•rɪ•mɛnt/,noun,"test
performed to assess new ideas or theories", english words ngsl
1342,consideration,/kən•sɪ•də•rɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"careful thought; thinking
about something", english words ngsl
1343,strange,/strɛɪndʒ/,adj,"unusual or odd; surprising because
unexpected", english words ngsl 1344,code,/koʊd/,noun,"a password made
of a set of letters or numbers", english words ngsl
1345,possibly,/pɑsəblɪ/,adv,"may be true or likely, but is uncertain",
english words ngsl 1346,threat,/θrɛt/,noun,"warning of probable
trouble", english words ngsl 1347,accident,/æk•sɪ•dənt/,noun,"sudden
unplanned event causing damage, injury, etc.", english words ngsl
1348,impossible,/ɪm•pɑ•sə•bl/,adj,"very unlikely to happen or exist",
english words ngsl 1349,revenue,/rɛ•vɪ•nju/,noun,"money that is made by
or paid to a business", english words ngsl
1350,enable,/ɪ•nɛɪ•bl/,verb,"to make it possible to do something",
english words ngsl 1351,afraid,/ə•frɛɪd/,adj,"worried that something bad
will happen; scared", english words ngsl
1352,active,/æk•tɪv/,adj,"moving around a lot or doing many things",
english words ngsl 1353,conclude,/kən'klud/,verb,"to stop or finish; to
come to the end of something", english words ngsl
1354,religious,/rɪ•lɪ•dʒəs/,adj,"concerning religion or faith", english
words ngsl 1355,cancer,/kæn•sə/,noun,"any growth caused by abnormal cell
division", english words ngsl 1356,convince,/kən•vɪns/,verb,"to persuade
someone, or make them feel sure", english words ngsl
1357,vary,/vɛɚ•rɪ/,verb,"to be changeable, both up and down", english
words ngsl 1358,environmental,/ɪn,vaɪərən'mɛntl/,adj,"of the natural
world in which plants and animals live", english words ngsl
1359,sun,/sʌn/,noun,"the hot shining star the earth moves around",
english words ngsl 1360,healthy,/hɛl•θɪ/,adj,"in good condition
physically (or financially); not ill or bad", english words ngsl
1361,blow,/bloʊ/,verb,"to move something using air", english words ngsl
1362,volume,/vɑ•ljʊm/,noun,"level of sound produced by an object, such
as a radio or television", english words ngsl
1363,location,/loʊ•kɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"particular position or area", english
words ngsl 1364,invest,/ɪn•vɛst/,verb,"to use resources to build for the
future", english words ngsl 1365,proceed,/prə•siːd/,verb,"to continue to
do something; carry on", english words ngsl 1366,wash,/wɑʃ/,verb,"to
clean someone or something with soap and water", english words ngsl
1367,actor,/æk•tə/,noun,"person who acts in the theater, movies, or tv",
english words ngsl 1368,glad,/glæd/,adj,"happy that something happened;
pleased", english words ngsl 1369,tape,/tɛɪp/,verb,"to stick things
together using an adhesive strip", english words ngsl
1370,whereas,/wɛɚr•æz/,conj,"taking into consideration the fact that",
english words ngsl 1371,opposite,/ɑ•pə•zɪt/,adj,"across from or on the
side facing something", english words ngsl
1372,stone,/stoʊn/,noun,"hard, solid piece of rock", english words ngsl
1373,sum,/sʌm/,noun,"amount when all is added together; total", english
words ngsl 1374,murder,/mɚ•də/,noun,"crime of deliberately killing a
person", english words ngsl 1375,monitor,/mɑ•nɪ•tə/,noun,"electronic
screen on which you can see images", english words ngsl
1376,soldier,/soʊl•dʒə/,noun,"person who is in the military", english
words ngsl 1377,finance,/faɪ•næns/,noun,"control of money a
person/business has access to", english words ngsl
1378,hate,/hɛɪt/,verb,"to have a very strong feeling of dislike for",
english words ngsl 1379,egg,/ɛg/,noun,"hard-shelled thing from which a
young bird is born", english words ngsl
1380,concert,/kən•sɚt/,noun,"musical entertainment given in public by
one or more performers", english words ngsl
1381,shock,/ʃɑk/,noun,"sudden bad feeling caused by something
unexpected", english words ngsl 1382,comfortable,/kʌm•fə•tə•bl/,adj,"not
being worried about something; at ease", english words ngsl
1383,usual,/ju•ʒʊəl/,adj,"being the way things occur most of the time",
english words ngsl 1384,carefully,/kɛɚfəlɪ/,adv,"in a manner that
involves focus and care", english words ngsl 1385,pack,/pæk/,verb,"to
put things in a suitcase to go on a trip", english words ngsl
1386,recall,/rɪ•koɚl/,verb,"to remember events or details of the past",
english words ngsl 1387,wine,/waɪn/,noun,"alcoholic drink made from the
juice of grapes", english words ngsl 1388,camera,/kæ•mə•rə/,noun,"object
that takes pictures digitally, or on film", english words ngsl
1389,swim,/swɪm/,verb,"to move through water by moving parts of the
body", english words ngsl 1390,manufacture,/mæ•njʊ•fæk•tʃə/,verb,"to
produce large numbers of products in a factory", english words ngsl
1391,theater,/θiːə•θɚ/,noun,"place where shows are performed on a
stage", english words ngsl 1392,cycle,/saɪ•kl/,noun,"series of regular
and repeated actions", english words ngsl 1393,coffee,/kɑ•fɪ/,noun,"a
brown drink made from roasted beans and boiled water", english words
ngsl 1394,totally,/toʊtəlɪ/,adv,"in a complete way; completely;
absolutely", english words ngsl 1395,museum,/mju'ziːɚm/,noun,"building
to display art, science, or history objects", english words ngsl
1396,visitor,/vɪ•zɪ•tə/,noun,"one who goes to a place to see it (or
someone)", english words ngsl 1397,freedom,/friː•dəm/,noun,"state of
being free, not being controlled", english words ngsl
1398,construction,/kən•strʌk•ʃən/,noun,"act of building something; thing
that is built", english words ngsl 1399,dear,/diːɚ/,adj,"loved or valued
very much", english words ngsl
1400,objective,/ɑb•dʒɛk•tɪv/,noun,"something you decide you want to do;
goal", english words ngsl 1401,moreover,/moɚ•roʊ•və/,adv,"in addition to
what has been said", english words ngsl 1402,onto,/ɑn•tʊ/,prep,"movement
towards a position that is on something", english words ngsl
1403,historical,/hɪs•tɑ•rɪ•kəl/,adj,"of or related to events or people
in the past", english words ngsl 1404,oppose,/ə•poʊz/,verb,"to be
against someone in a contest, game, or fight; to disagree", english
words ngsl 1405,branch,/brɑɚntʃ/,noun,"a part of a tree that grows out
from the main part; a part of an organization connected to but separate
from the main office", english words ngsl
1406,vehicle,/viː•ɪ•kl/,noun,"machine (such as a car) that is used to
carry things", english words ngsl 1407,scientist,/saɪ•ən•tɪst/,noun,"a
person who is trained to gain knowledge by making predictions, testing
them, and developing theories", english words ngsl
1408,route,/rut/,noun,"way to get from one place to another place",
english words ngsl 1409,bind,/baɪnd/,verb,"to join two or more things
together to limit their freedom", english words ngsl
1410,belong,/bɪ•lɑŋ/,verb,"to be a member of a particular group and feel
welcomed", english words ngsl 1411,taste,/tɛɪst/,noun,"the particular
quality of food or drink that can be sensed by a person's mouth",
english words ngsl 1412,tonight,/tə•naɪt/,adv,"night following this
day", english words ngsl 1413,fashion,/fæ•ʃən/,noun,"style of dress or
activity popular at some time", english words ngsl
1414,danger,/dɛɪn•dʒə/,noun,"possibility of getting hurt, damaged, or
killed", english words ngsl 1415,bomb,/bɑm/,verb,"a weapon designed to
break apart very suddenly and violently", english words ngsl
1416,army,/ɑɚ•mɪ/,noun,"large group of soldiers organized to fight in
wars", english words ngsl 1417,dangerous,/dɛɪn•dʒrəs/,adj,"involving the
chance of hurt or damage; risky", english words ngsl
1418,decrease,/diː•kriːs/,verb,"to reduce the size, amount, or number of
something", english words ngsl 1419,hurt,/hɚt/,verb,"to cause pain,
damage, or injury", english words ngsl
1420,council,/kaʊn•sl/,noun,"group chosen to make decisions about
something", english words ngsl 1421,editor,/ɛ•dɪ•tə/,noun,"a person
whose job is to correct and make changes to the contents of a book or
magazine", english words ngsl 1422,normally,/noɚməlɪ/,adv,"in the manner
that is usual or ordinary", english words ngsl
1423,sight,/saɪt/,noun,"the ability to see ", english words ngsl
1424,generate,/dʒɛ•nə•rɛɪt/,verb,"to create or be produced or bring into
existence", english words ngsl 1425,gift,/gɪft/,noun,"something given to
another for a reason; present", english words ngsl
1426,delivery,/dɪ•lɪ•və•rɪ/,noun,"act of taking something to a person or
place", english words ngsl 1427,deny,/dɪ•naɪ/,verb,"to refuse to allow
or accept something", english words ngsl 1428,guest,/gɛst/,noun,"person
invited to visit or stay in someone's home", english words ngsl
1429,anybody,/ɛ•nɪ•bɑ•dɪ/,pron,"any person; anyone", english words ngsl
1430,bedroom,/bɛ•drʊm/,noun,"room for sleeping usually with a bed",
english words ngsl 1431,quote,/kwoʊt/,verb,"to use someone's exact words
in your writing or speech", english words ngsl
1432,climb,/klaɪm/,verb,"to rise gradually and steadily to a higher
point", english words ngsl 1433,basically,/bɛɪsɪklɪ/,adv,"in the most
important ways even if not completely true", english words ngsl
1434,violence,/vaɪ•ə•ləns/,noun,"use of physical force to harm someone
or damage something", english words ngsl
1435,minister,/mɪ•nɪs•tə/,noun,"an official who heads a government
department", english words ngsl 1436,mainly,/mɛɪnlɪ/,adv,"mostly;
usually; being the largest part", english words ngsl
1437,mouth,/maʊð/,noun,"part of the face used for eating and talking",
english words ngsl 1438,noise,/noɪz/,noun,"a loud or unpleasant sound ",
english words ngsl 1439,manner,/mæ•nə/,noun,"that way that something
happens or is done", english words ngsl 1440,gun,/gʌn/,noun,"a weapon
that shoots small metal objects down a metal tube", english words ngsl
1441,square,/skwɛɚ/,noun,"shape with four sides of equal length sides
and four right (90°) angles", english words ngsl
1442,occasion,/ə•kɛɪ•ʒən/,noun,"particular time when something important
or special happens", english words ngsl
1443,familiar,/fə•mɪ•ljə/,adj,"well-known or easily recognized", english
words ngsl 1444,ignore,/ɪg•noɚ/,verb,"to not listen to, look at, or pay
attention to", english words ngsl 1445,destroy,/dɪs•troɪ/,verb,"to
damage something so badly that it no longer exists", english words ngsl
1446,affair,/ə•fɛɚ/,noun,"event or a set of events, often unpleasant
ones", english words ngsl 1447,civil,/sɪ•vl/,adj,"related to the people
of a country; not military/criminal", english words ngsl
1448,locate,/loʊ•kɛɪt/,verb,"to find a certain place, position, or
location of something", english words ngsl
1449,citizen,/sɪ•tɪ•zn/,noun,"person who belongs to and has rights in a
country", english words ngsl 1450,temperature,/tɛm•prɪ•tʃə/,noun,"a
measure of how hot or cold something is (e.g., the weather)", english
words ngsl 1451,gold,/goʊld/,noun,"soft yellow metal that is very
valuable", english words ngsl 1452,domestic,/də•mɛs•tɪk/,adj,"of or
relating to a particular country; of or relating to the home and
family", english words ngsl 1453,load,/loʊd/,noun,"large, often heavy,
amount of something to be moved", english words ngsl
1454,belief,/bɪ•liːf/,noun,"a feeling of being sure that something
exists or is true", english words ngsl 1455,troop,/trup/,noun,"group of
soldiers; an organized group", english words ngsl
1456,technical,/tɛk•nɪ•kəl/,adj,"of practical use of machines or science
in industry", english words ngsl 1457,remind,/rɪ•maɪnd/,verb,"to make
someone remember something", english words ngsl
1458,arrangement,/ə•rɛɪn•dʒmənt/,noun,"plan or preparation to make
something happen; an agreement", english words ngsl
1459,skin,/skɪn/,noun,"outer layer of an animal's or human's body",
english words ngsl 1460,prison,/prɪ•zn/,noun,"a place where people who
have committed serious crimes are held", english words ngsl
1461,switch,/swɪtʃ/,noun,"to change from one thing to another; a thing
you move to change from one thing to another", english words ngsl
1462,acquire,/ə•kwaɪ•ə/,verb,"to get or earn something by thinking or
working", english words ngsl 1463,corporate,/koɚ•pə•rɪt/,adj,"concerning
(usually large) companies", english words ngsl
1464,fairly,/fɛɚlɪ/,adv,"in a reasonable way; between a little and very
much", english words ngsl 1465,wood,/wʊd/,noun,"hard material that trees
are made of and is used for building and fuel", english words ngsl
1466,participate,/pɑɚ•tɪ•sɪ•pɛɪt/,verb,"to take part with others in
doing something", english words ngsl 1467,tough,/tʌf/,adj,"very
difficult to do or deal with", english words ngsl
1468,tear,/tɛɚ/,/tɪɚ/,verb,"noun, 1. (v) to damage something by pulling
it apart; 2. (n) drop of salty water from the eye", english words ngsl
1469,representative,/rɛ•prɪ•zɛn•tə•tɪv/,noun,"typical of a particular
group or thing", english words ngsl
1470,capacity,/kə•pæ•sɪ•tɪ/,noun,"ability to hold, involve or contain
people or things", english words ngsl 1471,border,/boɚ•də/,noun,"line
separating one country or state from another", english words ngsl
1472,shake,/ʃɛɪk/,verb,"to move something violently back and forth or up
and down", english words ngsl 1473,assessment,/ə•sɛs•mənt/,noun,"opinion
based on judging the qualities of something or someone", english words
ngsl 1474,shoe,/ʃu/,noun,"outer covering worn on the foot to protect it
usually sold in pairs", english words ngsl 1475,ought,/oɚt/,aux,"what is
expected; should", english words ngsl 1476,ad,/æd/,noun,"public notice
or advertisement", english words ngsl 1477,fee,/fiː/,noun,"amount of
money paid for a particular service", english words ngsl
1478,hall,/hoɚl/,noun,"a usually long, narrow room in a building that
leads to other rooms", english words ngsl
1479,regulation,/rɛ•gjʊ•lɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"official rule that controls how
something is done", english words ngsl 1480,escape,/ɪs•kɛɪp/,verb,"to
get away from a place where you are being held", english words ngsl
1481,studio,/stju•dɪ•oʊ/,noun,"the building or room where art is made,
such as paintings, movies, or music", english words ngsl
1482,proper,/prɑ•pə/,adj,"correct according to social or moral rules",
english words ngsl 1483,relax,/rɪ•læks/,verb,"to stop feeling nervous or
worried; to rest and do something enjoyable", english words ngsl
1484,tourist,/tʊə•rɪst/,noun,"someone who travels to a place for
pleasure", english words ngsl 1485,component,/kəm•poʊ•nənt/,adj,"one of
the parts that make up something", english words ngsl
1486,afford,/ə•foɚd/,verb,"to have enough money to pay for something",
english words ngsl 1487,lawyer,/loɚ•jə/,noun,"a professional who is paid
to help people with the law", english words ngsl
1488,suspect,/səs•pɛkt/,verb," to think that someone may have committed
a crime or done something wrong ", english words ngsl
1489,cup,/kʌp/,noun,"small round container used to hold liquids for
drinking", english words ngsl
1490,description,/dɪs•krɪp•ʃən/,noun,"something that tells you what
something is like or looks like", english words ngsl
1491,confidence,/kɑn•fɪ•dəns/,noun,"feeling that you can do well at
something", english words ngsl
1492,industrial,/ɪn•dʌs•triːɚl/,adj,"concerning the people and
businesses that make certain products", english words ngsl
1493,complain,/kəm•plɛɪn/,verb,"to say that you are not happy or
satisfied with something or someone", english words ngsl
1494,perspective,/pə•spɛk•tɪv/,noun,"way of thinking, an attitude toward
something", english words ngsl 1495,error,/ɛ•rə/,noun,"something that is
not correct; a mistake", english words ngsl
1496,arrest,/ə•rɛst/,verb,"to use the law to catch and keep people who
committed crimes", english words ngsl 1497,assess,/ə•sɛs/,verb,"to judge
something's value or suitability", english words ngsl
1498,register,/rɛ•dʒɪs•tə/,verb,"to record your name on an official
list; sign up", english words ngsl 1499,asset,/æ•sɛt/,noun,"a person or
thing that has value or use to someone or to a company", english words
ngsl 1500,signal,/sɪg•nL/,adj,"An action, change, or process that gives
information about something", english words ngsl
1501,finger,/fɪŋ•gə/,noun,"one of the five long parts of the hand",
english words ngsl 1502,relevant,/rɛ•lɪ•vənt/,adj,"direct related to a
subject in a considerable way", english words ngsl
1503,explore,/ɪks•ploɚ/,verb,"to learn about something by examining in
detail or someplace by traveling to it", english words ngsl
1504,leadership,/liː•də•ʃɪp/,noun,"quality of being able to guide or
influence others", english words ngsl
1505,commitment,/kə•mɪt•mənt/,noun,"a promise or decision to do
something; something that you must do that takes your time", english
words ngsl 1506,wake,/wɛɪk/,verb,"to stop sleeping; to make someone stop
sleeping", english words ngsl 1507,necessarily,/nɛ•sɪ•sə•rɪ•lɪ/,adv,"in
a way that is needed or required, or is unavoidable", english words ngsl
1508,bright,/braɪt/,adj,"producing a lot of light", english words ngsl
1509,frame,/frɛɪm/,noun,"(n) 1. the basic structure of something that
gives it its shape, to which other parts are added; 2. one picture in a
series that make a video; (v) 1. to put a picture in a supporting
structure; 2. to produce false evidence so an innocent person appears
guilty of a crime", english words ngsl 1510,slowly,/sloʊlɪ/,adv,"done in
a way that takes a long time", english words ngsl
1511,bond,/bɑnd/,verb,"something that joins or connects people, groups,
or parts; a duty or promise to another; glue", english words ngsl
1512,hire,/haɪ•ə/,verb,"to employ a person to do a particular job",
english words ngsl 1513,hole,/hoʊl/,noun,"opening into or through
something", english words ngsl 1514,tie,/taɪ/,verb,"to join together two
ends of string or rope; to join two or more things together with string
or rope", english words ngsl 1515,internal,/ɪn•tɚ•nL/,adj,"within or
inside", english words ngsl 1516,chain,/tʃɛɪn/,noun,"series of connected
things, events, or people", english words ngsl
1517,literature,/lɪ•tə•rɪ•tʃə/,noun,"writings that are valued as works
of art, esp. fiction, drama and poetry", english words ngsl
1518,victim,/vɪk•tɪm/,noun,"person who has suffered from a crime, bad
situation, or event", english words ngsl 1519,threaten,/θrɛ•tn/,verb,"to
say you will harm or hurt someone", english words ngsl
1520,division,/dɪ•vɪ•ʒən/,noun,"act of separating something into parts;
groups formed by different functions or opinions", english words ngsl
1521,secure,/sɪ•kjʊə/,verb,"to protect something from danger or harm,
keep things safe", english words ngsl 1522,amaze,/ə•mɛɪz/,verb,"to cause
wonder; to surprise completely", english words ngsl
1523,device,/dɪ•vaɪs/,noun,"object, machine, or equipment for a specific
use", english words ngsl 1524,birth,/bɚθ/,noun,"when a baby comes out of
the body of its mother", english words ngsl
1525,forest,/fɑ•rɪst/,noun,"large area with many trees", english words
ngsl 1526,label,/lɛɪ•bl/,noun,"a piece of paper or cloth that is
attached to something and gives information about it", english words
ngsl 1527,root,/rut/,noun,"part of a plant that grows underground",
english words ngsl 1528,factory,/fæk•tə•rɪ/,noun,"building where things
are made", english words ngsl 1529,expense,/ɪks•pɛns/,noun,"the amount
of money that is needed to pay for something", english words ngsl
1530,channel,/tʃæ•nL/,noun,"1. a narrow, deep body of water used by
ships; 2. a system used for sending something from one place or person
to another", english words ngsl
1531,investigate,/ɪn•vɛs•tɪ•gɛɪt/,verb,"to try to find out facts; to
carry out research", english words ngsl
1532,recommendation,/rɛ•kə•mɛn•dɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"suggestion about someone
or something being a good choice", english words ngsl
1533,rank,/ræŋk/,verb,"to place someone or something in higher or lower
position relative to others", english words ngsl
1534,typical,/tɪ•pɪ•kəl/,adj,"normal; usual; expected", english words
ngsl 1535,west,/wɛst/,noun,"the direction where the sun sets; opposite
of east", english words ngsl 1536,friendly,/frɛn•dlɪ/,adv,"acting like a
friend; kind and helpful", english words ngsl
1537,resident,/rɛ•zɪ•dənt/,adj,"someone who lives in a particular
place", english words ngsl 1538,provision,/prə•vɪ•ʒən/,noun,"1. supplies
that are needed or wanted; something that is supplied; 2. part of a law
or an agreement", english words ngsl
1539,concentrate,/kɑn•sɛn•trɛɪt/,verb,"to give all your attention to a
task; focus", english words ngsl 1540,plenty,/plɛn•tɪ/,pron,"a large
amount of something; a lot; not too little", english words ngsl
1541,export,/ɛks•poɚt/,verb,"to send goods to be sold in another
country", english words ngsl 1542,entirely,/ɪn'taɪəlɪ/,adv,"fully or
completely", english words ngsl 1543,strongly,/strɑŋlɪ/,adv,"in a strong
manner; in a very serious way", english words ngsl
1544,bridge,/brɪdʒ/,noun,"structure built over river or road so people,
vehicles, or animals can cross", english words ngsl
1545,consist,/kən•sɪst/,verb,"to have as an essential, necessary or main
part", english words ngsl 1546,graduate,/græ•djʊ•ɛɪt/,verb,"(v) to
receive a degree from a college or university; (n) a person who has
received a degree", english words ngsl 1547,brand,/brænd/,noun,"name
given to a product or service", english words ngsl
1548,moral,/mɑ•rəl/,adj,"relating to people's belief about right or
wrong behavior", english words ngsl 1549,insist,/ɪn•sɪst/,verb,"to state
your opinion strongly and firmly; to demand that something must happen",
english words ngsl 1550,combination,/kɑm•bɪ•nɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"result of
mixing things together", english words ngsl 1551,abuse,/ə•bjuz/,verb,"to
treat someone or something in a way that is cruel, harmful, or wrong",
english words ngsl 1552,ice,/aɪs/,noun,"frozen water ", english words
ngsl 1553,principal,/prɪn•sə•pəl/,adj,"1. most important; main; 2. the
person in charge of a (US) public school", english words ngsl
1554,master,/mɑɚs•tə/,adj,"1. someone who has control over others; 2.
someone who is very skilled at doing something", english words ngsl
1555,definitely,/dɛfɪnətlɪ/,adv,"without question; beyond doubt",
english words ngsl 1556,session,/sɛ•ʃən/,noun,"period of time for doing
a particular activity", english words ngsl
1557,grade,/grɛɪd/,noun,"level of study that is completed by a student",
english words ngsl 1558,nevertheless,/nɛ•və•ðə•lɛs/,adv,"despite what
has just been done or said; nonetheless", english words ngsl
1559,predict,/prɪ•dɪkt/,verb,"to guess or estimate what will or might
happen", english words ngsl 1560,previously,/priːviːɚslɪ/,adv,"at an
earlier time", english words ngsl
1561,protection,/prə•tɛk•ʃən/,noun,"being kept from harm", english words
ngsl 1562,largely,/lɑɚdʒlɪ/,adv,"in large part; mainly or chiefly",
english words ngsl 1563,wed,/wɛd/,verb,"to marry; to get married",
english words ngsl 1564,rent,/rɛnt/,verb,"to pay money for the use of
something", english words ngsl 1565,shot,/ʃɑt/,verb,"the act of firing a
gun, or kicking or throwing a ball at a goal", english words ngsl
1566,appearance,/ə•piːɚ•rəns/,noun,"way that someone or something
looks", english words ngsl 1567,reasonable,/riː•zŋ•ə•bl/,adj,"fair and
sensible; appropriate", english words ngsl
1568,guarantee,/gæ•rən•tiː/,verb,"to make a formal promise that
something will happen or be done.", english words ngsl
1569,till,/tɪl/,conj,"until", english words ngsl
1570,theme,/θiːm/,noun,"main subject to discuss or describe", english
words ngsl 1571,judgment,/dʒʌdʒ•mənt/,noun,"opinion that is made after
careful consideration", english words ngsl 1572,odd,/ɑd/,adj,"being
strange or different from what is usual or expected", english words ngsl
1573,approve,/ə•pruv/,verb,"to have a positive opinion of someone or
something", english words ngsl 1574,loan,/loʊn/,noun,"something (usually
money) that is given to someone for a period of time with a promise that
it will be returned", english words ngsl
1575,definition,/dɛ•fɪ•nɪ•ʃən/,noun,"explanation of word's meaning, as
in dictionaries", english words ngsl 1576,elect,/ɪ•lɛkt/,verb,"choose
someone for a position usually by voting ", english words ngsl
1577,atmosphere,/æt•məs•fiːɚ/,noun,"The mixture of gases surrounding the
Earth; the feeling that a place or situation gives you", english words
ngsl 1578,farmer,/fɑɚ•mə/,noun,"someone who owns or looks after farm, a
place for growing crops and keeping animals", english words ngsl
1579,comparison,/kəm•pæ•rɪ•sn/,noun,"looking for differences and
similarities in two or more things", english words ngsl
1580,characteristic,/kæ•rɪk•tə•rɪs•tɪk/,adj,"a typical feature or
quality that a particular person or thing has", english words ngsl
1581,license,/laɪ•səns/,noun,"official document which allows a person to
do or have something", english words ngsl 1582,rely,/rɪ•laɪ/,verb,"able
to depend on", english words ngsl 1583,narrow,/næ•roʊ/,adj,"long but not
wide; a small distance from one side to the other compared to length",
english words ngsl 1584,succeed,/sək•siːd/,verb,"to finally achieve
something that you were trying to achieve", english words ngsl
1585,identity,/aɪ•dɛn•tɪ•tɪ/,noun,"who someone is; the collection of
qualities that makes a person", english words ngsl
1586,desk,/dɛsk/,noun,"a piece of furniture like a table often with
drawers", english words ngsl 1587,permit,/pə•mɪt/,verb,"to allow someone
to do something or for something to happen", english words ngsl
1588,seriously,/siːɚriːɚslɪ/,adv,"in a serious way; in a way that shows
something is important", english words ngsl
1589,wild,/waɪld/,adj,"living in nature; not tame", english words ngsl
1590,empty,/ɛm•ptɪ/,adj,"containing nothing; with no contents", english
words ngsl 1591,commission,/kə•mɪ•ʃən/,noun,"a group officially put in
charge of finding out about something or controlling something", english
words ngsl 1592,unique,/ju•niːk/,adj,"unlike other things; being the
only one like it", english words ngsl
1593,association,/ə•soʊ•sɪ•ɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"organization of people with the
same interest", english words ngsl
1594,instrument,/ɪn•strʊ•mənt/,noun,"a piece of equipment used for a
particular purpose such as making music or measuring something", english
words ngsl 1595,investor,/ɪn•vɛs•tə/,noun,"a person who gives money to
help a business grow for a profit", english words ngsl
1596,practical,/præk•tɪ•kəl/,adj,"relating to what is sensible, real, or
useful rather than with ideas or theories", english words ngsl
1597,tea,/tiː/,noun,"drink made when you put dried leaves in hot water",
english words ngsl 1598,lovely,/lʌv•lɪ/,adj,"attractive or beautiful",
english words ngsl 1599,soft,/sɑft/,adj,"easy to press, bend or cut; not
hard or firm", english words ngsl 1600,row,/roʊ/,verb,"a straight line
of people or things; one after another", english words ngsl
1601,youth,/juθ/,noun,"when you are young; a young person", english
words ngsl 1602,lock,/lɑk/,verb,"to close something with a device so
others can't open it", english words ngsl
1603,fuel,/fju•ɚl/,noun,"material used to produce heat or power when
burned", english words ngsl 1604,expectation,/ɛk•spɛk•tɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"a
belief or hope that something is going to happen", english words ngsl
1605,employment,/ɪm•ploɪ•mənt/,noun,"having a job; work done for money",
english words ngsl 1606,celebrate,/sɛ•lɪ•brɛɪt/,verb,"to observe an
event or occasion (e.g., a birthday)", english words ngsl
1607,sexual,/sɛk•sjʊ•əl/,adj,"concerning physical activity that can
produce babies", english words ngsl 1608,shoulder,/ʃoʊl•də/,noun,"the
part of the body where an arm attaches or joins", english words ngsl
1609,breath,/brɛθ/,noun,"air you take in and out of your body", english
words ngsl 1610,increasingly,/ɪn•kriːs•ɪŋ•lɪ/,adv,"more and more; in
greater degree or amount", english words ngsl
1611,import,/ɪm•poɚt/,verb,"to bring items or goods from one country
into another", english words ngsl 1612,bottle,/bɑ•tl/,noun,"a container
with a narrow neck used to hold liquids like water or wine", english
words ngsl 1613,ourselves,/aʊ•ə•sɛlvz/,pron,"used by a speaker to show
that they and one or more people are affected by their action", english
words ngsl 1614,sheet,/ʃiːt/,noun,"a large piece of fabric or material
that is used to cover something, often a bed", english words ngsl
1615,engine,/ɛn•dʒɪn/,noun,"a machine that changes energy into motion",
english words ngsl 1616,cast,/kɑɚst/,verb,"to send, throw, or move
something or someone in a direction", english words ngsl
1617,notion,/noʊ•ʃən/,noun,"idea or opinion about doing something",
english words ngsl 1618,conservative,/kən•sɚ•və•tɪv/,adj,"preferring
traditional styles and values", english words ngsl
1619,journey,/dʒɚ•nɪ/,noun,"traveling from one place to another; trip",
english words ngsl 1620,opposition,/ɑ•pə•zɪ•ʃən/,noun,"act of
disagreeing or trying to stop something", english words ngsl
1621,relief,/rɪ•liːf/,noun,"the pleasant and relaxed feeling when
something unpleasant stops or does not happen", english words ngsl
1622,debt,/dɛt/,noun,"the sum of money owed to somebody that is not yet
paid", english words ngsl 1623,honor,/ɑː•nɚ/,noun,"respect given to
someone who is admired", english words ngsl
1624,outcome,/aʊt•kʌm/,noun,"something that happens as a result,
consequence", english words ngsl 1625,blame,/blɛɪm/,verb,"to say someone
is responsible for something bad", english words ngsl
1626,explanation,/ɛks•plə•nɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"details or reasons given to
make something clear", english words ngsl 1627,arise,/ə•raɪz/,verb,"to
begin, to start to happen", english words ngsl
1628,musical,/mju•zɪ•kəl/,noun,"play or movie set to music", english
words ngsl 1629,recover,/rɪ•kʌ•və/,verb,"to become healthy after an
illness or injury; to get better", english words ngsl
1630,dad,/dæd/,noun,"father", english words ngsl
1631,stretch,/strɛtʃ/,verb,"to make something bigger or looser by
pulling on it", english words ngsl 1632,declare,/dɪ•klɛɚ/,verb,"to say
something in an official or sure way", english words ngsl
1633,retire,/rɪ•taɪ•ə/,verb,"to stop working because you have reached a
certain age", english words ngsl 1634,tiny,/taɪ•nɪ/,adj,"very, very
small", english words ngsl 1635,careful,/kɛɚ•fʊl/,adj,"thinking about
what you are doing in order to avoid a mistake", english words ngsl
1636,suitable,/sju•tə•bl/,adj,"acceptable or right for someone or
something", english words ngsl 1637,native,/nɛɪ•tɪv/,noun,"being from or
living in the place where you were born", english words ngsl
1638,fruit,/frut/,noun,"food that grows on a tree or bush", english
words ngsl 1639,analyze,/ænəlaɪz/,verb,"to study carefully to find out
the meaning of", english words ngsl 1640,witness,/wɪt•nɪs/,noun,"a
person who sees something happen", english words ngsl
1641,mail,/mɛɪl/,noun,"a letter, package, or email", english words ngsl
1642,terrible,/tɛ•rə•bl/,adj,"very bad; horrible", english words ngsl
1643,researcher,/rɪ•sɚ•tʃə/,noun,"a person who studies something
carefully to learn new information", english words ngsl
1644,ordinary,/oɚ•dn•rɪ/,adj,"not special, different, or unusual",
english words ngsl 1645,selection,/sɪ•lɛk•ʃən/,noun,"the act of
carefully choosing something or someone from a group", english words
ngsl 1646,anywhere,/ɛ•nɪ•wɛɚ/,adv,"in, at, or to any place; used in
questions, with 'not'", english words ngsl
1647,mental,/mɛn•tl/,adj,"concerning the mind", english words ngsl
1648,participant,/pɑɚ•tɪ•sɪ•pənt/,noun,"a person who is actively
involved and included in something", english words ngsl
1649,vision,/vɪʒn/,noun,"ability to see things with your eyes", english
words ngsl 1650,personality,/pɚ•sə•næ•lɪ•tɪ/,noun,"person's character;
the way that a person usually acts", english words ngsl
1651,specifically,/spə•sɪfɪklɪ/,adv,"in a well-defined or clear manner;
in particular", english words ngsl 1652,fat,/fæt/,noun,"oily part of
meat", english words ngsl 1653,entry,/ɛn•trɪ/,noun,"the act of going
into some place", english words ngsl 1654,fellow,/fɛ•loʊ/,noun,"someone
in the same group or situation; a boy or man", english words ngsl
1655,chemical,/kɛ•mɪ•kəl/,noun,"a basic substance produced by mixing
elements", english words ngsl 1656,capture,/kæp•tʃə/,verb,"to catch and
prevent a person/animal from being free", english words ngsl
1657,tip,/tɪp/,noun,"a small piece of advice; the end of something",
english words ngsl 1658,discount,/dɪs•kaʊnt/,noun,"an amount of money
taken off the usual price of something", english words ngsl
1659,peak,/piːk/,noun,"the time or place when something or someone is
best, greatest, highest", english words ngsl
1660,chairman,/tʃɛɚ•mən/,noun,"a person in charge of a meeting", english
words ngsl 1661,proportion,/prə•poɚ•ʃən/,noun,"an amount that is a part
of a whole thing", english words ngsl 1662,ear,/iːɚ/,noun,"the part of
the head that you hear with", english words ngsl
1663,disappear,/dɪ•sə•piːɚ/,verb,"to become impossible to see", english
words ngsl 1664,shout,/ʃaʊt/,verb,"to speak very loudly because you want
to get their attention", english words ngsl
1665,yard,/jɑɚd/,noun,"outdoor area or garden next to a house", english
words ngsl 1666,constant,/kɑn•stənt/,adj,"happening frequently or
without pause", english words ngsl
1667,significantly,/sɪg•nɪfɪkəntlɪ/,adv,"in a way that is important or
noticeable", english words ngsl 1668,hill,/hɪl/,noun,"an area of land
that is higher than the land around it but smaller than a mountain",
english words ngsl 1669,considerable,/kən•sɪ•də•rə•bl/,adj,"large in
size, amount, or effect", english words ngsl
1670,instruction,/ɪn•strʌk•ʃən/,noun,"information about how to do or use
something", english words ngsl
1671,intelligence,/ɪn•tɛ•lɪ•dʒəns/,noun,"ability to learn, think about,
and understand things", english words ngsl
1672,ideal,/aɪ•diːɚl/,adj,"perfect; most suitable; best possible",
english words ngsl 1673,folk,/foʊk/,adj,"ordinary people", english words
ngsl 1674,surely,/ʃʊəlɪ/,adv,"with certainty; definitely", english words
ngsl 1675,guard,/gɑɚd/,verb,"to keep watch over something to protect it
e.g., a bank", english words ngsl 1676,cat,/kæt/,noun,"a small animal of
the lion and tiger family with four legs and a tail that is kept as a
pet", english words ngsl 1677,somewhat,/sʌ•mwɑt/,adv,"little, not very",
english words ngsl 1678,kiss,/kɪs/,verb,"to put your lips against
another's to show love", english words ngsl
1679,presentation,/prɛ•zɛn•tɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"act of giving a formal talk
about something", english words ngsl 1680,joint,/dʒoɪnt/,noun,"1. (n.)
place where two things meet; 2. (adj.) done together", english words
ngsl 1681,compete,/kəm•piːt/,verb,"to try to win something such as a
race or game", english words ngsl 1682,poll,/pɑl/,noun,"to get
information by asking many people questions about a particular subject",
english words ngsl 1683,weak,/wiːk/,adj,"having little power; not
strong; easy to break", english words ngsl 1684,faith,/fɛɪθ/,noun,"a
strong belief that someone or something is honest and good", english
words ngsl 1685,reduction,/rɪ•dʌk•ʃən/,noun,"making something smaller;
reducing something", english words ngsl 1686,reserve,/rɪ•zɚv/,verb,"1.
(v) to arrange to use a room or table at a particular time; 2. (n) a
store of something", english words ngsl
1687,complaint,/kəm•plɛɪnt/,noun,"saying something is wrong and should
be changed", english words ngsl 1688,bore,/boɚ/,verb,"to make someone
not interested in something", english words ngsl
1689,mission,/mɪ•ʃən/,noun,"a special task or job that is given to a
person or group", english words ngsl 1690,somehow,/sʌm•haʊ/,adv,"in a
way that is not known or certain", english words ngsl
1691,tone,/toʊn/,noun,"sound of a voice that shows emotion or meaning",
english words ngsl 1692,neighborhood,/neiː•bə•hʊd/,noun,"area of a town
or city that people live in", english words ngsl
1693,passenger,/pæ•sɪn•dʒə/,noun,"A person who is traveling in a
vehicle", english words ngsl 1694,justice,/dʒʌs•tɪs/,noun,"quality of
being fair, equal, or just", english words ngsl
1695,phase,/fɛɪz/,noun,"distinct part or step in a process", english
words ngsl 1696,thin,/θɪn/,adj,"not thick; not wide in size", english
words ngsl 1697,rush,/rʌʃ/,verb,"to do something very quickly", english
words ngsl 1698,formal,/foɚ•məl/,adj,"suitable for serious, official, or
important occasions", english words ngsl
1699,religion,/rɪ•lɪ•dʒən/,noun,"set of beliefs about a god or gods",
english words ngsl 1700,employer,/ɪm•ploɪ•ə/,noun,"person or firm that
pays people to work for them", english words ngsl
1701,reject,/rɪ•dʒɛkt/,verb,"to refuse to believe, accept, or consider",
english words ngsl 1702,latter,/læ•tə/,adj,"the second or last mentioned
thing", english words ngsl 1703,plate,/plɛɪt/,noun,"a flat dish used for
eating or serving food", english words ngsl 1704,ban,/bæn/,verb,"to make
something illegal or not allowed", english words ngsl
1705,steal,/stiːl/,verb,"to secretly take something that belongs to
another", english words ngsl 1706,protest,/prə•tɛst/,verb,"to express
opposition through action or words", english words ngsl
1707,index,/ɪn•dɛks/,noun,"a written or printed list of topics or words
in a particular order", english words ngsl 1708,sad,/sæd/,adj,"feeling
unhappy; wishing something hadn't happened", english words ngsl
1709,frequently,/friː•kwənt•lɪ/,adv,"often; regularly", english words
ngsl 1710,circle,/sɚ•kl/,noun,"a perfectly round shape or a group
arranged in that shape", english words ngsl
1711,helpful,/hɛlp•fəl/,adj,"doing things that help someone", english
words ngsl 1712,command,/kə•mɑɚnd/,noun,"an order; control over others",
english words ngsl 1713,attractive,/ə•træk•tɪv/,adj,"making you like
them, as by being good-looking", english words ngsl
1714,sick,/sɪk/,adj,"having a physical or mental illness; not feeling
well", english words ngsl 1715,impression,/ɪm•prɛ•ʃən/,noun,"effect or
feeling resulting from an experience", english words ngsl
1716,unable,/ʌn•ɛɪ•bl/,adj,"not being able to do something", english
words ngsl 1717,joke,/dʒoʊk/,verb,"to say or do things that are meant to
be funny", english words ngsl 1718,sky,/skaɪ/,noun,"the place where we
see clouds above us", english words ngsl 1719,column,/kɑ•ləm/,noun,"a
tall post made of stone or wood used as a support in a building; one of
two or more blocks of print that appear next to each other on a page",
english words ngsl 1720,electronic,/ɪ•lɛk•trɑ•nɪk/,adj,"operating by use
of electricity; digital", english words ngsl
1721,impose,/ɪm•poʊz/,verb,"to make someone to do, believe, or accept
something", english words ngsl 1722,criminal,/krɪ•mɪ•nL/,adj,"related to
illegal activity; (n) a person who has done a crime", english words ngsl
1723,besides,/bɪ•saɪdz/,prep,"other than or in addition to", english
words ngsl 1724,properly,/prɑ•pə•lɪ/,adv,"in a correct or suitable way
depending on the situation", english words ngsl
1725,ancient,/ɛɪn•ʃənt/,adj,"very old; having lived a very long time
ago", english words ngsl 1726,coast,/koʊst/,noun,"land near the sea or
ocean", english words ngsl 1727,ill,/ɪl/,adj,"not well; sick", english
words ngsl 1728,kick,/kɪk/,verb,"to hit someone or something using your
foot", english words ngsl 1729,closely,/kloʊslɪ/,adv,"very near in space
or time; just next to", english words ngsl
1730,multiple,/mʌl•tɪ•pl/,adj,"many things or people", english words
ngsl 1731,yield,/jiːld/,verb,"to give way to someone or something else",
english words ngsl 1732,via,/vaɪə/,prep,"by going through, by way of",
english words ngsl 1733,legislation,/lɛ•dʒɪs•lɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"act or
process of writing and passing laws", english words ngsl
1734,county,/kaʊn•tɪ/,noun,"an area within a country or a state with its
own local government", english words ngsl
1735,unlike,/ʌn•laɪk/,adj,"appearing or being different", english words
ngsl 1736,mobile,/moʊ•baɪl/,adj,"able to move from one place to
another", english words ngsl 1737,assistant,/ə•sɪs•tənt/,noun,"a person
who helps another, usually as a job", english words ngsl
1738,implement,/ɪm•plɪ•mɛnt/,verb,"to start and carry out a plan or
government policy; (n) tool", english words ngsl
1739,chart,/tʃɑɚt/,noun,"drawing showing information in a clear way",
english words ngsl 1740,attach,/ə•tætʃ/,verb,"to be associated or
connected with", english words ngsl 1741,hell,/hɛl/,noun,"any place of
pain and suffering", english words ngsl
1742,everywhere,/ɛ•vrɪ•wɛɚ/,adv,"every place", english words ngsl
1743,advise,/əd•vaɪz/,verb,"to suggest what should be done", english
words ngsl 1744,household,/haʊs•hoʊld/,noun,"all the people who live in
a house; a family", english words ngsl
1745,acknowledge,/ək•nɑ•lɪdʒ/,verb,"to accept that something is true",
english words ngsl 1746,reward,/rɪ•woɚd/,verb,"to give something to
someone because of their good work", english words ngsl
1747,east,/iːst/,noun,"the direction where the sun rises", english words
ngsl 1748,hat,/hæt/,noun,"something people wear to cover their heads for
fashion or protection", english words ngsl
1749,academic,/æ•kə•dɛ•mɪk/,adj,"related to education or school; (n)
educator who works at a college or university", english words ngsl
1750,voter,/voʊ•tə/,noun,"a person who can vote in an election", english
words ngsl 1751,meanwhile,/miːn•waɪl/,adv,"at or during the same time;
in the meantime", english words ngsl
1752,furthermore,/fɚ•ðə•moɚ/,adv,"in addition to what has been said",
english words ngsl 1753,accuse,/ə•kjuz/,verb,"to say that someone has
done something bad or wrong", english words ngsl
1754,scientific,/saɪ•ən•tɪ•fɪk/,adj,"related to science", english words
ngsl 1755,wage,/wɛɪdʒ/,noun,"money paid to workers for the hours they
worked", english words ngsl 1756,absence,/æb•səns/,noun,"a time when you
are not in a place where you should be", english words ngsl
1757,construct,/kən•strʌkt/,verb,"to build or create something", english
words ngsl 1758,remark,/rɪ•mɑɚk/,verb,"to say an opinion or make a
comment about something", english words ngsl
1759,medicine,/mɛd•sɪn/,noun,"liquid or pills used to treat illness or
pain; the study of treating illness or pain", english words ngsl
1760,professor,/prə•fɛ•sə/,noun,"a teacher of high rank in a university
or college", english words ngsl 1761,rare,/rɛɚ/,adj,"not common or
usual", english words ngsl 1762,intention,/ɪn•tɛn•ʃən/,noun,"plan, aim,
or purpose", english words ngsl 1763,dozen,/dʌ•zn/,noun,"a group of
twelve people or things", english words ngsl
1764,settlement,/sɛtlmənt/,noun,"an official agreement that ends an
argument or fight between people or groups", english words ngsl
1765,gap,/gæp/,noun,"a space between two things", english words ngsl
1766,widely,/waɪdlɪ/,adv,"by or among a large number of people", english
words ngsl 1767,minimum,/mɪ•nɪ•məm/,noun,"lowest number or amount that
is possible", english words ngsl 1768,northern,/noɚ•ðən/,adj,"in or
toward the north", english words ngsl 1769,estate,/ɪs•tɛɪt/,noun,"land
that a person owns", english words ngsl 1770,equally,/iːkwəlɪ/,adv,"in
an equal, similar, or identical way", english words ngsl
1771,expose,/ɛks•poʊ•zɛɪ/,verb,"to show something that is usually
hidden, covered, or protected", english words ngsl
1772,alive,/ə•laɪv/,adj,"living; not dead", english words ngsl
1773,shut,/ʃʌt/,verb,"to close something", english words ngsl
1774,victory,/vɪk•tə•rɪ/,noun,"a win in a war, game, or competition",
english words ngsl 1775,resolve,/rɪ•zɑlv/,verb,"to find an answer or way
to handle a problem", english words ngsl 1776,critic,/krɪ•tɪk/,noun,"a
person whose job is to give opinions about books, movies, or other forms
of art", english words ngsl 1777,variable,/vɛɚ•riːɚ•bl/,adj,"having the
ability to change or vary", english words ngsl
1778,enormous,/ɪ•noɚ•məs/,adj,"huge; very big; very large", english
words ngsl 1779,sweet,/swiːt/,adj,"tasting like sugar; containing
sugar", english words ngsl 1780,permanent,/pɚ•mə•nənt/,adj,"lasting
forever; not temporary or changing", english words ngsl
1781,emotion,/ɪ•moʊ•ʃən/,noun,"a feeling such as sadness, anger, or
love", english words ngsl 1782,pursue,/pə•sju/,verb,"to follow and try
to catch something; to try to get something", english words ngsl
1783,tall,/toɚl/,adj,"greater in height than average", english words
ngsl 1784,urge,/ɚdʒ/,verb,"to strongly persuade someone to do
something", english words ngsl 1785,enemy,/ɛ•nɪ•mɪ/,noun,"someone who
wants to harm another", english words ngsl
1786,appoint,/ə•poɪnt/,verb,"to officially choose a person for a job,
position", english words ngsl 1787,milk,/mɪlk/,noun,"the white liquid
produced by females to feed their babies", english words ngsl
1788,talent,/tæ•lənt/,noun,"the natural ability of a person to do
something well", english words ngsl 1789,smell,/smɛl/,verb,"to use your
nose to sense something", english words ngsl
1790,prior,/praɪ•ə/,adj,"happening or coming earlier in time", english
words ngsl 1791,priority,/praɪ•ɑ•rɪ•tɪ/,noun,"something that is
important and must be done before other things", english words ngsl
1792,online,/ɑːn•laɪn/,adj,"connected to the internet", english words
ngsl 1793,phrase,/frɛɪz/,noun,"a group of words that forms a unit and
expresses a single meaning", english words ngsl
1794,pilot,/paɪ•lət/,noun,"a person who controls an airplane,
spacecraft, or boat", english words ngsl 1795,stable,/stɛɪ•bl/,adj,"in a
good situation or condition; not likely to change", english words ngsl
1796,merely,/miːɚlɪ/,adv,"only, simply, or nothing more than", english
words ngsl 1797,resolution,/rɛ•zə•lu•ʃən/,noun,"a formal agreement or
statement decided by a group of people", english words ngsl
1798,communicate,/kə•mju•nɪ•kɛɪt/,verb,"to give and exchange
information", english words ngsl 1799,injury,/ɪn•dʒə•rɪ/,noun,"physical
or emotional harm or damage that a person experiences", english words
ngsl 1800,vast,/vɑɚst/,adj,"being very large in size or amount", english
words ngsl 1801,exhibition,/ɛk•sɪ•bɪ•ʃən/,noun,"an event at which an
object or group of objects is shown to the public", english words ngsl
1802,producer,/prə•dju•sə/,noun,"a company making or growing a certain
product", english words ngsl 1803,regional,/riː•dʒə•nL/,adj,"having to
do with a particular area", english words ngsl
1804,immediate,/ɪ•miː•djət/,adj,"done without delay; straight away",
english words ngsl 1805,incident,/ɪn•sɪ•dənt/,noun,"something that
happens, especially if it is bad or unusual", english words ngsl
1806,childhood,/tʃaɪl•dhʊd/,noun,"the time when you are a child",
english words ngsl 1807,draft,/drɑɚft/,noun,"a piece of writing or plan
that is not yet finished", english words ngsl 1808,slip,/slɪp/,verb,"to
slide out of position or fall to the ground by accident", english words
ngsl 1809,accompany,/ə•kʌm•pə•nɪ/,verb,"to go somewhere with someone",
english words ngsl 1810,politician,/pɑ•lɪ•tɪ•ʃən/,noun,"someone who is
active in politics", english words ngsl 1811,angry,/æŋ•grɪ/,adj,"having
a strong feeling about something that you dislike very much", english
words ngsl 1812,knock,/nɑk/,verb,"to hit something to get people's
attention", english words ngsl 1813,seed,/siːd/,noun,"a small object
made by a plant from which a new plant can grow; the beginning of
something", english words ngsl 1814,salary,/sæ•lə•rɪ/,noun,"money an
employee is paid each year", english words ngsl
1815,illustrate,/ɪ•ləs•trɛɪt/,verb,"to explain with examples, to make it
easier to understand", english words ngsl 1816,imply,/ɪm•plaɪ/,verb,"to
suggest something, without saying it directly", english words ngsl
1817,breakfast,/brɛk•fəst/,noun,"the first meal of the day", english
words ngsl 1818,temporary,/tɛm•pə•rə•rɪ/,adj,"continuing for a limited
time, not permanent", english words ngsl
1819,liberal,/lɪ•bə•rəl/,adj,"open to new ideas; believing government
should actively support social needs", english words ngsl
1820,lake,/lɛɪk/,noun,"a large area of water surrounded by land",
english words ngsl 1821,qualify,/kwɑ•lɪ•faɪ/,verb,"to get the necessary
skill or knowledge to do a particular job or activity", english words
ngsl 1822,competitive,/kəm•pɛ•tɪ•tɪv/,adj,"wanting to win or to be
better than others", english words ngsl 1823,truly,/trulɪ/,adv,"based on
truth or fact or reality", english words ngsl 1824,hi,/haɪ/,intj,"what
you say when you meet someone; hello", english words ngsl
1825,yellow,/jɛ•loʊ/,adj,"color of lemons or the sun", english words
ngsl 1826,habit,/hæbɪt/,noun,"the usual way of behaving; something often
repeated", english words ngsl 1827,disk,/dɪsk/,noun,"a flat round
object", english words ngsl 1828,core,/koɚ/,noun,"the central part of a
fruit that contains the seeds; the central part of something", english
words ngsl 1829,emotional,/ɪ•moʊ•ʃə•nL/,adj,"related to deep feelings",
english words ngsl 1830,aircraft,/ɛɚ•krɑɚft/,noun,"a machine that can
fly", english words ngsl 1831,self,/sɛlf/,noun,"the type of person you
really are", english words ngsl 1832,metal,/mɛ•tl/,noun,"a type of hardy
material that is usually hard and shiny that can be used to make things,
such as iron, gold, or steel", english words ngsl
1833,existence,/ɪg•zɪs•təns/,noun,"state of being present, alive, or
real", english words ngsl 1834,bone,/boʊn/,noun,"hard pieces of a body
that form the frame of an animal", english words ngsl
1835,panel,/pæ•nL/,noun,"a rectangular piece of wood, metal, etc., that
is a part of something bigger; a group of people who discuss something",
english words ngsl 1836,prime,/praɪm/,adj,"main; most important; best
quality", english words ngsl 1837,appointment,/ə•poɪnt•mənt/,noun,"the
time you arranged to meet someone or do something", english words ngsl
1838,emphasize,/ɛm•fə•saɪz/,verb,"to stress the items that are
important", english words ngsl 1839,maximum,/mæk•sɪ•məm/,noun,"largest
or greatest", english words ngsl 1840,effectively,/ɪ•fɛktɪvlɪ/,adv,"in a
way that produces the result you want", english words ngsl
1841,elsewhere,/ɛls•wɛɚ/,adv,"in or to another or different place",
english words ngsl 1842,bother,/bɑ•ðə/,verb,"to take the trouble to do
something", english words ngsl
1843,initiative,/ɪ•nɪ•ʃiːɚ•tɪv/,noun,"ability to decide or act upon
things yourself without depending on someone else", english words ngsl
1844,sharp,/ʃɑɚp/,adj,"having a thin edge or point that is able to cut",
english words ngsl 1845,diet,/daɪ•ət/,verb,"the type of food that a
person or animal usually eats", english words ngsl
1846,motion,/moʊ•ʃən/,noun,"a movement; the way something moves",
english words ngsl 1847,gray,/grɛɪ/,adj,"color between black and white",
english words ngsl 1848,plastic,/plæs•tɪk/,noun,"a very common, light,
strong material that can be formed into many different shapes and is
made by a chemical process", english words ngsl
1849,complicate,/kɑm•plɪ•kɛɪt/,verb,"to make more difficult", english
words ngsl 1850,discipline,/dɪ•sɪp•lɪn/,noun,"the teaching of
self-control through instruction and practice", english words ngsl
1851,disappoint,/dɪ•sə•poɪnt/,verb,"to not meet the expectations of
others or yourself", english words ngsl 1852,boss,/bɑs/,noun,"a person
who manages you, or is in charge of you at work", english words ngsl
1853,assumption,/ə•sʌm•pʃən/,noun,"something you believe to be so, but
aren't sure of", english words ngsl 1854,freeze,/friːz/,verb,"to become
hard because of very cold temperatures", english words ngsl
1855,extreme,/ɪks•triːm/,adj,"very great in degree", english words ngsl
1856,passage,/pæ•sɪdʒ/,noun,"a long, narrow area that connects one place
to another", english words ngsl
1857,reputation,/rɛ•pju•tɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"an opinion that people have about
someone or something based on the past", english words ngsl
1858,forth,/foɚθ/,adv,"out of a place; forward in time, place, or way",
english words ngsl 1859,negotiation,/nɪ•goʊ•ʃɪ•ɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"a formal
discussion to reach an agreement", english words ngsl
1860,mechanism,/mɛ•kə•nɪ•zəm/,noun,"a part or a set of parts of a
machine that has a particular function", english words ngsl
1861,coat,/koʊt/,noun,"clothing worn outside over your normal clothes",
english words ngsl 1862,democracy,/dɪ•mɑ•krə•sɪ/,noun,"a system of
government in which the people of a country can vote to elect who will
govern them", english words ngsl 1863,pocket,/pɑ•kɪt/,noun,"small cloth
bag sewn into clothing to hold things", english words ngsl
1864,lucky,/lʌ•kɪ/,adj,"fortunate; having good things happen to you",
english words ngsl 1865,crash,/kræʃ/,verb,"to hit something hard enough
to cause serious damage", english words ngsl
1866,observation,/ɑb•zɚ•vɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"careful watching and listening;
remark or comment on something you have noticed", english words ngsl
1867,meat,/miːt/,noun,"the muscles and soft parts of animals or birds
that is eaten as food", english words ngsl
1868,concentration,/kɑn•sɛn•trɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"the ability to direct all
your effort and attention on the one thing you are doing and nothing
else", english words ngsl
1869,implication,/ɪm•plɪ•kɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"possible effects or results from
an action or event", english words ngsl 1870,deserve,/dɪ•zɚv/,verb,"to
get the appropriate reward or punishment for the way you behaved or
something you did", english words ngsl
1871,unusual,/ʌn•ju•ʒʊəl/,adj,"different from what is ordinary or normal
in a way that attracts attention; not usual", english words ngsl
1872,defend,/dɪ•fɛnd/,verb,"to protect against an attack", english words
ngsl 1873,classic,/klæ•sɪk/,noun,"something popular or famous for a long
time and is considered one of the best of its kind", english words ngsl
1874,king,/kɪŋ/,noun,"the male ruler of a country that has a royal
family", english words ngsl
1875,interaction,/ɪn•tər•æk•ʃən/,noun,"process of two or more people or
things affecting each other", english words ngsl
1876,repair,/rɪ•pɛɚ/,verb,"to fix something that is broken; fix",
english words ngsl 1877,collapse,/kə•læps/,verb,"to suddenly fall down
or break apart", english words ngsl 1878,borrow,/bɑ•roʊ/,verb,"to
receive something from someone and later return it", english words ngsl
1879,fundamental,/fʌn•də•mɛn•tl/,adj,"relating to the most important
parts of something", english words ngsl 1880,dish,/dɪʃ/,noun,"a shallow
container for cooking or serving food", english words ngsl
1881,abroad,/ə•broɚd/,adv,"in or to a foreign country", english words
ngsl 1882,soul,/soʊl/,noun,"the spiritual part of a person", english
words ngsl 1883,capable,/kɛɪ•pə•bl/,adj,"able to do something; can do",
english words ngsl 1884,defeat,/dɪ•fiːt/,verb,"to win against someone in
something such as a fight or game", english words ngsl
1885,presidential,/prɛ•zɪ•dɛn•ʃəl/,adj,"relating to the president",
english words ngsl 1886,perfectly,/pɚ•fɪktlɪ/,adv,"in a faultless
manner; without mistakes", english words ngsl
1887,enhance,/ɪn•hɑɚns/,verb,"to make something better; to improve",
english words ngsl 1888,proud,/praʊd/,adj,"pleased because of something
you have done", english words ngsl 1889,emergency,/ɪ•mɚ•dʒən•sɪ/,noun,"a
sudden serious event needing immediate action", english words ngsl
1890,educational,/ɛ•dju•kɛɪ•ʃə•nL/,adj,"relating to teaching in a
school", english words ngsl 1891,distinguish,/dɪs•tɪŋ•gwɪʃ/,verb,"to
notice the difference between two or more things or people", english
words ngsl 1892,substantial,/səb•stæn•ʃəl/,adj,"large in amount,
quantity, or size", english words ngsl 1893,nearby,/niːɚ•baɪ/,adj,"not
far away", english words ngsl
1894,manufacturer,/mæ•njʊ•fæk•tʃə•rə/,noun,"a person or company that
makes a product", english words ngsl 1895,slide,/slaɪd/,verb,"to move
smoothly and easily, usually over a surface", english words ngsl
1896,valuable,/væ•ljʊə•bl/,adj,"worth a lot of money", english words
ngsl 1897,personally,/pɚs•nə•lɪ/,adv,"by a specific person, and not by
anyone else", english words ngsl 1898,breast,/brɛst/,noun,"one of the
two parts on the front of a woman's body that produce milk when she has
a baby", english words ngsl 1899,cope,/koʊp/,verb,"to deal successfully
with a difficult problem", english words ngsl
1900,approximately,/ə•prɑksɪmətlɪ/,adv,"around; nearly; almost; about (a
number)", english words ngsl 1901,accommodation,/ə•kɑm•ə•dɛɪ•ʃn/,noun,"a
place to stay, often a hotel", english words ngsl
1902,highlight,/haɪ•laɪt/,noun,"the best or most interesting part of
something", english words ngsl 1903,reporter,/rɪ•poɚ•tə/,noun,"someone
whose job is to write and report news for a newspaper, magazine,
television, or radio station", english words ngsl
1904,climate,/klaɪ•mɪt/,noun,"typical weather conditions in a particular
place", english words ngsl 1905,shirt,/ʃɚt/,noun,"a light piece of
clothing with sleeves for the upper body", english words ngsl
1906,exception,/ɪk•sɛp•ʃən/,noun,"something not included in or different
from a group of things", english words ngsl
1907,corporation,/koɚ•pə•rɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"big company or a combination of
several companies", english words ngsl 1908,chip,/tʃɪp/,noun,"a small
piece that was broken or taken off something", english words ngsl
1909,winner,/wɪ•nə/,noun,"the person or animal that is the best in a
contest or first in a race", english words ngsl
1910,encounter,/ɪn•kaʊn•tə/,verb,"to have or experience something, often
unpleasant or difficult", english words ngsl 1911,brown,/braʊn/,adj,"of
the color of coffee, wood, or chocolate", english words ngsl
1912,breathe,/briːð/,verb,"to move air into and out of your lungs",
english words ngsl 1913,excuse,/ɪks•kjuz/,verb,"to give a reason to
explain why you did something", english words ngsl
1914,partly,/pɑɚt•lɪ/,adv,"in part; not completely", english words ngsl
1915,tennis,/tɛ•nɪs/,noun,"game played by hitting a ball over a net",
english words ngsl 1916,urban,/ɚ•bən/,adj,"concerning a city; located in
a city", english words ngsl 1917,confuse,/kən•fjuz/,verb,"to make
something unclear or hard to understand", english words ngsl
1918,southern,/sʌ•ðən/,adj,"in or from the south", english words ngsl
1919,output,/aʊt•pʊt/,noun,"amount of something that is produced",
english words ngsl 1920,beauty,/bju•tɪ/,noun,"quality of being
physically or visually attractive", english words ngsl
1921,massive,/mæ•sɪv/,adj,"very big; very large and heavy", english
words ngsl 1922,install,/ɪn•stoɚl/,verb,"to set up a piece of equipment
so that it is ready to use", english words ngsl
1923,calculate,/kæl•kjʊ•lɛɪt/,verb,"to find an answer using
mathematics", english words ngsl 1924,mouse,/maʊz/,noun,"a small animal
that has fur and a long tail", english words ngsl
1925,mathematics,/mæ•θɪ•mæ•tɪks/,noun,"study or science of numbers and
shapes", english words ngsl 1926,upper,/ʌ•pə/,adj,"higher than others of
the same kind", english words ngsl 1927,creation,/kriː•ɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"act
of making something", english words ngsl
1928,occupy,/ɑ•kjʊ•paɪ/,verb,"to fill a time, a space, or an area",
english words ngsl 1929,outline,/aʊt•laɪn/,noun,"the main ideas or facts
about something, without the details", english words ngsl
1930,sufficient,/sə•fɪ•ʃənt/,adj,"having as much as is needed for a
particular purpose", english words ngsl 1931,update,/ʌp•dɛɪt/,verb,"to
change something by adding the most recent information", english words
ngsl 1932,luck,/lʌk/,noun,"accidental way things happen, often good
things", english words ngsl 1933,preserve,/prɪ•zɚv/,verb,"to keep
something in an unchanged or perfect condition", english words ngsl
1934,split,/splɪt/,verb,"to break something into pieces or divide
something", english words ngsl 1935,swing,/swɪŋ/,verb,"to move smoothly
backwards and forwards or from side to side while hanging from
something", english words ngsl 1936,illness,/ɪl•nəs/,noun,"unhealthy
condition of the mind or body", english words ngsl
1937,journalist,/dʒɚ•nə•lɪst/,noun,"a person who writes news reports for
newspapers, magazines, television, or radio", english words ngsl
1938,sudden,/sʌ•dn/,adj,"happening or done quickly or unexpectedly",
english words ngsl 1939,advertisement,/əd•vɚ•tɪs•mənt/,noun,"a picture,
short film, text, etc., that tells people about a product or service",
english words ngsl 1940,consistent,/kən•sɪs•tənt/,adj,"always acting or
happening in the same way", english words ngsl
1941,originally,/ə•rɪ•dʒŋ•ə•lɪ/,adv,"at first; in the beginning",
english words ngsl 1942,aside,/ə•saɪd/,adv,"to the side; out of the way;
for later use", english words ngsl 1943,comfort,/kʌm•fət/,noun,"state of
being relaxed, warm, or happy", english words ngsl
1944,secondly,/sɛ•kənd•lɪ/,adv,"used to give a point or reason after the
first", english words ngsl 1945,severe,/sɪ•viːɚ/,adj,"very bad; very
serious", english words ngsl 1946,gene,/dʒiːn/,noun,"part of a cell that
controls the development and appearance of a living thing", english
words ngsl 1947,prospect,/prəs•pɛkt/,noun,"the possibility that
something might happen in the future, especially something good",
english words ngsl 1948,snow,/snoʊ/,noun,"soft white pieces of frozen
water falling from the clouds", english words ngsl
1949,plot,/plɑt/,noun,"a plan to do something, often in secret and bad",
english words ngsl 1950,neck,/nɛk/,noun,"part of the body joining the
head and the body", english words ngsl
1951,criterion,/kraɪ•tiːɚ•riːɚn/,noun,"a standard used to make judgments
or decisions", english words ngsl 1952,primarily,/praɪ•mə•rə•lɪ/,adv,"in
the most basic or important way", english words ngsl
1953,integrate,/ɪn•tɪ•grɛɪt/,verb,"to combine together; make into one
thing", english words ngsl 1954,criticism,/krɪ•tɪ•sɪ•zəm/,noun,"written
or spoken remarks about what is bad about someone or something", english
words ngsl 1955,convention,/kən•vɛn•ʃən/,noun,"a large meeting of the
members of a profession, organization, or who have the same interests",
english words ngsl 1956,bet,/bɛt/,verb,"to make an agreement on the
results of an event where the losers give something (usually money) to
the winner", english words ngsl 1957,retain,/rɪ•tɛɪn/,verb,"to continue
to have or use something; to keep", english words ngsl
1958,sequence,/siː•kwəns/,noun,"an ordered group of related events or
things", english words ngsl 1959,plain,/plɛɪn/,adj,"simple; easy to
understand; clear", english words ngsl
1960,volunteer,/vɑ•lən•tiːɚ/,noun,"someone who works willingly without
pay", english words ngsl 1961,rural,/rʊə•rəl/,adj,"relating to parts of
a country that are outside towns and cities, with fields, woods, etc.",
english words ngsl 1962,calm,/kɑɚm/,adj,"relaxed and not worried or
angry", english words ngsl 1963,abandon,/ə•bæn•dən/,verb,"to leave
someone or something you are responsible for and not return", english
words ngsl 1964,examination,/ɪg•zæ•mɪ•nɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"test of your
knowledge of, or ability in something", english words ngsl
1965,silence,/saɪ•ləns/,noun,"no sound or noise", english words ngsl
1966,rapidly,/ræp•ɪd•lɪ/,adv,"with great speed", english words ngsl
1967,efficient,/ɪ•fɪ•ʃənt/,adj,"able to work well without waste",
english words ngsl 1968,revolution,/rɛ•və•lu•ʃən/,noun,"a change in the
way a country is governed, usually by violence or war; a complete
change", english words ngsl 1969,delight,/dɪ•laɪt/,noun,"a strong
feeling of great pleasure and happiness", english words ngsl
1970,spell,/spɛl/,verb,"to be able to say, write, or print the letters
that make up a word", english words ngsl 1971,premise,/prɪ•maɪz/,noun,"a
statement or idea that is accepted as being true and is used for
developing other ideas and actions", english words ngsl
1972,lean,/liːn/,verb,"to bend or move someone's body in a particular
direction; (adj) very little fat", english words ngsl
1973,dramatic,/drə•mæ•tɪk/,adj,"sudden and extreme", english words ngsl
1974,differ,/dɪ•fə/,verb,"to be not the same as others", english words
ngsl 1975,grateful,/grɛɪt•fəl/,adj,"feeling or showing thanks;
thankful", english words ngsl 1976,protein,/proʊ•tiːn/,noun,"a substance
found in some foods, such as meat, that is needed by the body to stay
healthy", english words ngsl 1977,bike,/baɪk/,noun,"a vehicle with two
wheels that a person can ride", english words ngsl
1978,distribute,/dɪs•trɪ•bjut/,verb,"to hand in or deliver something to
people", english words ngsl 1979,intellectual,/ɪn•tɪ•lɛk•tjʊəl/,noun,"of
or relating to the ability to think in a logical way and understand
complicated ideas and subjects", english words ngsl
1980,derive,/dɪ•raɪv/,verb,"to develop or get something from something
else", english words ngsl 1981,crucial,/kru•ʃjəl/,adj,"extremely
important", english words ngsl
1982,unemployment,/ʌn•ɪm•ploɪ•mənt/,noun,"the number of people in an
area who want to work but do not have a job", english words ngsl
1983,wheel,/wiːl/,noun,"the round thing under a vehicle that turns and
makes it move", english words ngsl 1984,crop,/krɑp/,noun,"plants grown
on a farm for food (e.g., corn or rice)", english words ngsl
1985,minority,/maɪ•nɑ•rɪ•tɪ/,noun,"a part of a group that is less than
half of the whole; a small part", english words ngsl
1986,origin,/ɑ•rɪ•dʒɪn/,noun,"the point at which something begins or is
created", english words ngsl
1987,interpretation,/ɪn•tɚ•prɪ•tɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"an explanation or opinion
of the meaning of something", english words ngsl
1988,gentleman,/dʒɛn•tl•mən/,noun,"a man who has good manners and is
considerate", english words ngsl 1989,drama,/drɑɚ•mə/,noun,"a piece of
writing that tells a story about a serious subject or an exciting
event", english words ngsl 1990,landscape,/læn•skɛɪp/,noun,"a large area
of countryside or land that has a particular quality or appearance",
english words ngsl 1991,educate,/ɛ•dju•kɛɪt/,verb,"to teach someone in a
school or college", english words ngsl 1992,toy,/toɪ/,noun,"a thing that
children play with", english words ngsl 1993,fault,/foɚlt/,noun,"a bad
quality or part of someone or something; responsibility for a mistake or
bad situation", english words ngsl 1994,exhibit,/ɪg•zɪ•bɪt/,verb,"to
display or make available for people to see", english words ngsl
1995,minor,/maɪ•nə/,adj,"not so large in size, not important or
valuable", english words ngsl 1996,hunt,/hʌnt/,verb,"to search for wild
animals to kill for food or sport", english words ngsl
1997,storm,/stoɚm/,noun,"bad weather with a lot of rain, snow, and
strong winds", english words ngsl 1998,thick,/θɪk/,adj,"having a large
distance between two surfaces", english words ngsl
1999,achievement,/ə•tʃiːv•mənt/,noun,"something good that you have
successfully done", english words ngsl
2000,negotiate,/nɪ•goʊ•ʃɪ•ɛɪt/,verb,"to have a formal discussion to
reach an agreement", english words ngsl
2001,dominate,/dɑ•mɪ•nɛɪt/,verb,"to have power or influence over",
english words ngsl 2002,supplier,/sə•plaɪ•ə/,noun,"organization that
provides a product or service", english words ngsl
2003,prize,/praɪz/,noun,"something that is won in a contest or given as
an award", english words ngsl 2004,typically,/tɪp•ɪ•klɪ/,adv,"in a
normal or usual way", english words ngsl 2005,peer,/piːɚ/,noun,"person
of the same age, class, or background as another", english words ngsl
2006,pension,/pɛn•ʃən/,noun,"regular payments you receive after you
retire", english words ngsl 2007,wing,/wɪŋ/,noun,"part of an animal's
body that is used for flying", english words ngsl
2008,acquisition,/æ•kwɪ•zɪ•ʃən/,noun,"act of getting something", english
words ngsl 2009,laughter,/lɑɚf•tə/,noun,"action or sound of laughing",
english words ngsl 2010,deeply,/diːp•lɪ/,adv,"to a great, intense, or
extreme extent", english words ngsl
2011,recognition,/rɛ•kəg•nɪ•ʃən/,noun,"accepting that something is true
or that it exists", english words ngsl
2012,electricity,/ɪ•lɛk•trɪ•sɪ•tɪ/,noun,"energy generated positive and
negative charges", english words ngsl
2013,assistance,/ə•sɪs•təns/,noun,"act of helping someone", english
words ngsl 2014,roof,/ruf/,noun,"cover or top of something", english
words ngsl 2015,retirement,/rɪ•taɪ•ə•mənt/,noun,"time when someone has
stopped working because of their age", english words ngsl
2016,respectively,/rɪ•spɛk•tɪv•lɪ/,adv,"in the order people or things
were mentioned", english words ngsl
2017,variation,/vɛɚ•rɪ•ɛɪ•ʃn/,noun,"something almost the same as another
but different", english words ngsl
2018,ultimately,/ʌl•tɪ•mət•lɪ/,adv,"finally, after doing other things",
english words ngsl 2019,proof,/pruf/,noun,"information which shows that
something is true or correct", english words ngsl
2020,soil,/soɪl/,noun,"top layer of earth in which plants grow", english
words ngsl 2021,smart,/smɑɚt/,adj,"being clever, having a good mind",
english words ngsl 2022,layer,/lɛɪə/,noun,"an amount of something that
is spread over a surface", english words ngsl
2023,upset,/ʌp•sɛt/,adj,"troubled, worried, or angry", english words
ngsl 2024,tooth,/tuθ/,noun,"hard white thing in the mouth used for
biting and eating", english words ngsl
2025,representation,/rɛ•prɪ•zɛn•tɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"speaking or doing
something officially for another person", english words ngsl
2026,preparation,/prɛ•pə•rɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"getting ready for something",
english words ngsl 2027,dispute,/dɪs•pjut/,noun,"argument between two or
more parties about something", english words ngsl
2028,agenda,/ə•dʒɛn•də/,noun,"a list of subjects that people will
discuss at a meeting", english words ngsl
2029,emphasis,/ɛm•fə•sɪs/,noun,"particular importance to the way
something is said", english words ngsl 2030,edition,/ɪ•dɪ•ʃən/,noun,"a
particular version of something that is sold to the public", english
words ngsl 2031,silver,/sɪl•və/,noun,"expensive, near white color metal
(symbol Ag)", english words ngsl
2032,entertainment,/ɛn•tə•tɛɪn•mənt/,noun,"activities that make people
have a good time by singing, telling jokes, etc.", english words ngsl
2033,honest,/ɑ•nɪst/,adj,"good; always telling the truth and not
stealing", english words ngsl 2034,undertake,/ʌn•də•tɛɪk/,verb,"to begin
or attempt, commit oneself to and begin", english words ngsl
2035,retail,/riː•tɛɪl/,adj,"concerning the business of selling products
to the public for personal use", english words ngsl
2036,wire,/waɪ•ə/,noun,"thin, flexible thread of metal", english words
ngsl 2037,unlikely,/ʌn•laɪk•lɪ/,adv,"not being likely to happen or not
likely to be the truth", english words ngsl 2038,gay,/gɛɪ/,noun,"person
attracted to someone of the same sex", english words ngsl
2039,publication,/pʌb•lɪ•kɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"process of producing a book or
magazine", english words ngsl 2040,slight,/slaɪt/,adj,"very small in
degree or amount", english words ngsl 2041,unknown,/ʌn•noʊn/,noun,"not
familiar or famous", english words ngsl
2042,framework,/frɛɪ•mwɚk/,noun,"basic structure of something", english
words ngsl 2043,zone,/zoʊn/,noun,"area of space used for a particular
reason", english words ngsl 2044,restrict,/rɪs•trɪkt/,verb,"to prevent
from doing something", english words ngsl 2045,trace,/trɛɪs/,verb,"to
find, describe or discover by investigation", english words ngsl
2046,inch,/ɪntʃ/,noun,"a measure of length; 1/12 of a foot (2.54
centimeters)", english words ngsl
2047,equivalent,/ɪ•kwɪ•və•lənt/,adj,"being about equal in value, use, or
meaning", english words ngsl 2048,solid,/sɑ•lɪd/,adj,"firm or hard; not
a gas or liquid", english words ngsl
2049,enterprise,/ɛn•tə•praɪz/,noun,"a business or organization", english
words ngsl 2050,elderly,/ɛl•də•lɪ/,adv,"a polite word for 'old', used to
describe people", english words ngsl 2051,owe,/oʊ/,verb,"to need to pay
money to a person, bank, business, etc.", english words ngsl
2052,governor,/gʌ•və•nə/,noun,"person who leads a state or province",
english words ngsl 2053,uniform,/ju•nɪ•foɚm/,noun,"a set of clothes that
show you are part of a group or school", english words ngsl
2054,port,/poɚt/,noun,"a town or an area of a town next to water where
ships arrive and leave from", english words ngsl
2055,pitch,/pɪtʃ/,noun,"1. the level of a sound; 2. a throw of a ball;
3. a speech to sell something; 4. black substance that is sticky when
hot and hard when dry", english words ngsl
2056,arrival,/ə•raɪ•vəl/,noun,"when someone or something gets to a
place", english words ngsl
2057,contemporary,/kən•tɛm•pə•rə•rɪ/,noun,"being of the time being
discussed", english words ngsl 2058,gate,/gɛɪt/,noun,"place in a fence
which can be opened or closed", english words ngsl
2059,ease,/iːz/,noun,"state of being comfortable or relaxed", english
words ngsl 2060,beer,/biːɚ/,noun,"alcoholic drink that is made from
wheat or grains", english words ngsl
2061,specialist,/spɛ•ʃə•lɪst/,noun,"person who works in one specific
area of a field or profession", english words ngsl
2062,assure,/ə•ʃʊə/,verb,"to make sure that something happens", english
words ngsl 2063,profile,/proʊ•faɪl/,noun,"description listing the basic
information about a person or group", english words ngsl
2064,mood,/mud/,noun,"emotion or a state of mind; how you feel", english
words ngsl 2065,episode,/ɛ•pɪ•soʊd/,noun,"show which is part of a larger
story", english words ngsl 2066,crack,/kræk/,verb,"to almost break
something", english words ngsl 2067,numerous,/nju•mə•rəs/,adj,"existing
in large numbers", english words ngsl 2068,submit,/səb•mɪt/,verb,"to
accept a superior force has power over you", english words ngsl
2069,symptom,/sɪm•ptəm/,noun,"a change in someone or something that
shows they have an illness or problem", english words ngsl
2070,virtually,/vɚtʃʊəlɪ/,adv,"almost completely", english words ngsl
2071,era,/iːɚ•rə/,noun,"a period of time in history that is special for
a particular reason", english words ngsl
2072,coverage,/kʌ•və•rɪdʒ/,noun,"way a newspaper, television program,
etc., reports an event or subject", english words ngsl
2073,tension,/tɛn•ʃən/,noun,"feeling of anxiety and inability to relax",
english words ngsl 2074,cable,/kɛɪ•bl/,noun,"wire carrying electricity,
tv signals, internet, etc.", english words ngsl
2075,sensitive,/sɛn•sɪ•tɪv/,adj,"easily hurt or damaged", english words
ngsl 2076,nervous,/nɚ•vəs/,adj,"having a tendency to become uneasy or
anxious", english words ngsl 2077,input,/ɪn•pʊt/,verb,"to put in
information, advice, or opinions", english words ngsl
2078,isolate,/aɪ•sə•lɛɪt/,verb,"to keep in a place or situation apart
from others", english words ngsl 2079,prisoner,/prɪ•zŋ•ə/,noun,"someone
kept in a prison as punishment for a crime", english words ngsl
2080,eliminate,/ɪ•lɪ•mɪ•nɛɪt/,verb,"to completely remove; to get rid
of", english words ngsl 2081,tight,/taɪt/,adj,"held together firmly;
difficult to move", english words ngsl 2082,wet,/wɛt/,adj,"covered or
soaked with a liquid; not dry", english words ngsl
2083,secondary,/sɛ•kən•də•rɪ/,adj,"less important than something else",
english words ngsl 2084,welfare,/wɛl•fɛɚ/,noun,"a government program to
help poor people", english words ngsl 2085,recruit,/rɪ•krut/,verb,"to
get people to come and work, join, or study with you", english words
ngsl 2086,exclude,/ɪks•klud/,verb,"to prevent someone from access to a
group", english words ngsl 2087,string,/strɪŋ/,noun,"thin rope", english
words ngsl 2088,cloud,/klaʊd/,noun,"a mass of water vapor in the sky, as
when it is going to rain", english words ngsl
2089,persuade,/pə•swɛɪd/,verb,"to get you to do/believe something, by
giving reasons", english words ngsl 2090,inspire,/ɪn•spaɪ•ə/,verb,"to
make someone have the desire to do something", english words ngsl
2091,grand,/grænd/,adj,"including many things; very large", english
words ngsl 2092,hence,/hɛns/,adv,"from now, later than the present
time", english words ngsl 2093,crew,/kru/,noun,"an organized group of
workers (e.g., on a ship)", english words ngsl
2094,phenomenon,/fɪ•nɑ•mɪ•nən/,noun,"a fact that can be observed and
studied", english words ngsl 2095,pupil,/pju•pl/,noun,"1. a child or
young person who is being taught; a student; 2. the black round part in
the center of the eye that lets in light", english words ngsl
2096,false,/foɚls/,adj,"not real or true", english words ngsl
2097,assist,/ə•sɪst/,verb,"to help", english words ngsl
2098,restore,/rɪs•toɚ/,verb,"to put or bring back into existence or use,
mend", english words ngsl 2099,formula,/foɚ•mjʊ•lə/,noun,"plan, rule, or
method for doing or making something", english words ngsl
2100,alter,/oɚl•tə/,verb,"to make a change to something", english words
ngsl 2101,perceive,/pɚ•siːv/,verb,"to notice or become aware of
something", english words ngsl 2102,routine,/ru•tiːn/,noun,"happening or
done regularly or frequently", english words ngsl
2103,sink,/sɪŋk/,verb,"to go down below the surface of water, mud,
etc.", english words ngsl 2104,stare,/stɛɚ/,verb,"to look at someone or
something for a long time", english words ngsl
2105,anymore,/ɛni•moɚ/,adv,"no longer; no more", english words ngsl
2106,hero,/hiːɚ•roʊ/,noun,"person of great courage and strength who
saves others", english words ngsl
2107,supporter,/sə•poɚ•tə/,noun,"someone who shows they are in favor of
an idea/plan", english words ngsl 2108,convert,/kən•vɚt/,verb,"to change
form, character, or function to another", english words ngsl
2109,steady,/stɛ•dɪ/,adj,"firmly fixed, supported, or balanced; not
shaking, rocking, or likely to fall over", english words ngsl
2110,meter,/miː•tə/,noun,"unit of length equal to 100 cm or about 39
inches", english words ngsl 2111,truck,/trʌk/,noun,"a large road vehicle
used to carry things", english words ngsl 2112,nose,/noʊz/,noun,"part of
the face used for breathing and smelling", english words ngsl
2113,beside,/bɪ•saɪd/,prep,"by the side of something; next to
something", english words ngsl 2114,sail,/sɛɪl/,verb,"to travel on water
in a ship or boat", english words ngsl
2115,disaster,/dɪ•zɑɚs•tə/,noun,"something that causes a lot of harm or
damage", english words ngsl 2116,pace,/pɛɪ•sɪ/,noun,"the speed at which
someone or something moves or happens", english words ngsl
2117,heavily,/hɛvɪlɪ/,adv,"a lot or to a great degree", english words
ngsl 2118,devote,/dɪ•voʊt/,verb,"to decide to use or give something for
something else", english words ngsl 2119,terrorist,/tɛ•rə•rɪst/,noun,"a
person who uses fear or violence for a political purpose", english words
ngsl 2120,justify,/dʒʌs•tɪ•faɪ/,verb,"to give reasons why you did
something or why it is right", english words ngsl
2121,vital,/vaɪ•tl/,adj,"necessary", english words ngsl
2122,fascinate,/fæ•sɪ•nɛɪt/,verb,"attract or interest greatly", english
words ngsl 2123,external,/ɛks•tɚ•nL/,adj,"outside of something", english
words ngsl 2124,spare,/spɛɚ/,adj,"kept as something extra that can be
used if it is needed", english words ngsl
2125,whenever,/wɛn•ɛ•və/,adv,"at any or every time that", english words
ngsl 2126,depression,/dɪ•prɛ•ʃən/,noun,"a feeling of great sadness",
english words ngsl 2127,guilty,/gɪl•tɪ/,adj,"having done something bad
or illegal", english words ngsl 2128,underlie,/ʌn•də•laɪ/,verb,"to lie
or exist beneath", english words ngsl 2129,mom,/mɑːm/,noun,"mother",
english words ngsl 2130,distinction,/dɪs•tɪŋ•kʃən/,noun,"the special
quality that makes something different", english words ngsl
2131,satisfaction,/sæ•tɪs•fæk•ʃən/,noun,"happy feeling because of
something that you did", english words ngsl
2132,incorporate,/ɪn•koɚ•pə•rɛɪt/,verb,"to include or involve as part of
something else", english words ngsl 2133,pour,/poɚ/,verb,"to make a
liquid flow from one container into another", english words ngsl
2134,sweep,/swiːp/,verb,"to remove dust or dirt from a surface with a
broom or brush", english words ngsl
2135,obligation,/ɑb•lɪ•gɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"something that you do because it
is your duty or because you feel you have to", english words ngsl
2136,sir,/sɚ/,noun,"form of address to a man you respect", english words
ngsl 2137,evaluate,/ɪ•væ•ljʊ•ɛɪt/,verb,"to form an idea to judge
something carefully", english words ngsl 2138,anger,/æŋ•gə/,verb,"to
make someone mad, upset, or annoyed", english words ngsl
2139,pub,/pʌb/,noun,"a place that sells alcohol and food", english words
ngsl 2140,perception,/pɚ•sɛp•ʃən/,noun,"the way in which one sees or
understands something", english words ngsl
2141,naturally,/nætʃrəlɪ/,adv,"as someone would expect; not surprising",
english words ngsl 2142,currency,/kʌ•rən•sɪ/,noun,"a money system that a
country uses", english words ngsl
2143,database,/deɪ•tə•beɪs/,noun,"information stored in a computer in an
organized way", english words ngsl 2144,initially,/ɪ'nɪʃəlɪ/,adv,"at the
beginning", english words ngsl 2145,territory,/tɛ•rɪ•tə•rɪ/,noun,"area
of land or ocean owned or controlled by a government or person", english
words ngsl 2146,stream,/striːm/,noun,"small river", english words ngsl
2147,rarely,/rɛɚlɪ/,adv,"in an infrequent manner", english words ngsl
2148,height,/haɪt/,noun,"distance of something from the bottom to the
top", english words ngsl 2149,apparent,/ə•pæ•rənt/,adj,"easy to see or
clearly understand", english words ngsl
2150,western,/wɛs•tən/,adj,"coming from, found in, or facing towards the
west", english words ngsl 2151,expansion,/ɪks•pæn•ʃən/,noun,"act of
expanding or becoming bigger", english words ngsl
2152,constantly,/kɑnstəntlɪ/,adv,"happening a lot or all the time",
english words ngsl 2153,muscle,/mʌ•sl/,noun,"a body tissue that can
become longer or shorter and moves the body", english words ngsl
2154,scare,/skɛɚ/,verb,"to make someone feel frightened or worried",
english words ngsl 2155,badly,/bædlɪ/,adv,"not in a good way; not as
wanted or liked", english words ngsl 2156,everyday,/ɛ•vrɪ•dɛɪ/,adj,"used
or seen daily; suitable for daily use; ordinary", english words ngsl
2157,boundary,/baʊn•də•rɪ/,noun,"where one area ends and another
begins", english words ngsl 2158,ratio,/rɛɪ•ʃɪ•oʊ/,noun,"two numbers
that show ​the relationship between two groups of people or things",
english words ngsl 2159,essay,/ɛ•sɛɪ/,noun,"short written work that
displays someone's opinions or beliefs regarding a particular subject",
english words ngsl 2160,scream,/skriːm/,verb,"to make a sudden loud
cry", english words ngsl 2161,withdraw,/wɪð•droɚ/,verb,"pull back; move
away or backward from something", english words ngsl
2162,pollution,/pə•lu•ʃən/,noun,"dirty or dangerous waste released into
an environment", english words ngsl 2163,disorder,/dɪs•oɚ•də/,noun,"a
lack of organization", english words ngsl
2164,furniture,/fɚ•nɪ•tʃə/,noun,"items such as tables, chairs, beds, or
closets", english words ngsl 2165,symbol,/sɪm•bəl/,noun,"action or
object that represents a particular idea or quality", english words ngsl
2166,apartment,/ə•pɑɚt•mənt/,noun,"set of rooms to live in on one floor
of a building", english words ngsl
2167,demonstration,/dɛ•məns•trɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"explanation of how something
works", english words ngsl 2168,analyst,/æ•nə•lɪst/,noun,"someone who is
skilled at studying the details of data", english words ngsl
2169,platform,/plæt•foɚm/,noun,"a raised area for people to stand on",
english words ngsl 2170,steel,/stiːl/,noun,"very strong metal made of
iron and other substances mixed together", english words ngsl
2171,cake,/kɛɪk/,noun,"a sweet baked food made from flour, eggs, fat,
and sugar", english words ngsl 2172,transform,/træns•foɚm/,verb,"to
change the shape of something completely", english words ngsl
2173,wound,/waʊnd/,noun,"an injury to the body that is caused when
something breaks the skin", english words ngsl
2174,restriction,/rɪs•trɪk•ʃən/,noun,"a rule or law that limits what
people can do", english words ngsl
2175,foundation,/faʊn•dɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"underground base on which a
building is constructed", english words ngsl
2176,designer,/dɪ•zaɪ•nə/,noun,"someone who creates plans to make
something", english words ngsl 2177,strain,/strɛɪn/,noun,"too much
pressure on a person or system that can cause problems", english words
ngsl 2178,innovation,/ɪ•noʊ•vɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"new invention or idea that is
created", english words ngsl 2179,album,/æl•bəm/,noun,"book with a
collection of photographs or pictures", english words ngsl
2180,singer,/sɪ•ŋə/,noun,"a person who sings, often as a profession",
english words ngsl 2181,trail,/trɛɪl/,noun,"a path through the
countryside, often where people walk", english words ngsl
2182,trap,/træp/,noun,"a device used for catching animals", english
words ngsl 2183,loose,/lus/,adj,"not tightly attached or held", english
words ngsl 2184,extension,/ɪks•tɛn•ʃən/,noun,"extra time allowed to
complete something", english words ngsl 2185,wealth,/wɛlθ/,noun,"large
amount of money and possessions", english words ngsl
2186,gradually,/grædʒʊəlɪ/,adv,"occurring in a slow manner over a period
of time", english words ngsl 2187,tank,/tæŋk/,noun,"container for
holding liquid or gas", english words ngsl
2188,evil,/iː•vl/,adj,"morally bad; causing harm to someone", english
words ngsl 2189,remarkable,/rɪ•mɑɚ•kə•bl/,adj,"interesting and
unexpected, worthy of notice", english words ngsl
2190,tune,/tjun/,noun,"group of musical notes that make a nice sound",
english words ngsl 2191,grass,/grɑɚs/,noun,"plants with narrow green
leaves, grown on lawns", english words ngsl
2192,invitation,/ɪn•vɪ•tɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"when someone asks you to do
something or go somewhere", english words ngsl
2193,transition,/træn•sɪ•ʒən/,noun,"a gradual change from one condition
to another", english words ngsl 2194,frighten,/fraɪ•tn/,verb,"to make
someone afraid or nervous", english words ngsl 2195,bid,/bɪd/,verb,"an
offer to pay a particular amount of money for something", english words
ngsl 2196,breed,/briːd/,verb,"to produce baby animals of specific
kinds", english words ngsl
2197,extraordinary,/ɪks•troɚ•dn•rɪ/,adj,"beyond what is ordinary; very
unusual; remarkable", english words ngsl
2198,brilliant,/brɪ•ljənt/,adj,"having a great amount of intelligence or
talent", english words ngsl 2199,adviser,/əd•vaɪ•zə/,noun,"an expert who
suggests what someone should do", english words ngsl
2200,stem,/stɛm/,noun,"the long, thin part of a plant that supports
leaves and flowers", english words ngsl 2201,reverse,/rɪ•vɚs/,verb,"to
go in the opposite direction", english words ngsl
2202,mode,/moʊd/,noun,"way of acting or doing something", english words
ngsl 2203,mirror,/mɪ•rə/,noun,"a thing with a glass surface used to look
at yourself", english words ngsl 2204,awful,/oɚ•fʊl/,adj,"very bad;
horrible; terrible", english words ngsl 2205,pose,/poʊz/,verb,"to put
someone in a position to be photographed", english words ngsl
2206,adjust,/ə•dʒʌst/,verb,"to change to fit in with new conditions",
english words ngsl 2207,creative,/kriː•ɛɪ•tɪv/,adj,"having the ability
to make something new", english words ngsl
2208,nowadays,/naʊ•ə•dɛɪz/,adv,"at the present time; now", english words
ngsl 2209,poem,/poʊ•ɪm/,noun,"a written composition in verse, not
prose", english words ngsl
2210,agricultural,/æ•grɪ•kʌl•tʃə•rəl/,adj,"concerning farming", english
words ngsl 2211,competitor,/kəm•pɛ•tɪ•tə/,noun,"someone taking part in a
race, business, etc.", english words ngsl
2212,alcohol,/æl•kə•hɑl/,noun,"drinks such as wine, whiskey, beer",
english words ngsl 2213,festival,/fɛs•tə•vəl/,noun,"cultural event with
a program of events", english words ngsl
2214,vegetable,/vɛ•dʒɪ•tə•bl/,noun,"a plant that is raised and eaten as
food", english words ngsl 2215,van,/væn/,noun,"truck with an enclosed
cargo space", english words ngsl
2216,confident,/kɑn•fɪ•dənt/,adj,"feeling that you can do well at
something", english words ngsl 2217,planet,/plæ•nɪt/,noun,"one of the
bodies that orbit the sun", english words ngsl 2218,curve,/kɚv/,noun,"a
smooth rounded line that is not straight", english words ngsl
2219,knee,/niː/,noun,"the middle part of your leg that bends", english
words ngsl 2220,overcome,/oʊ•və•kʌm/,verb,"to succeed in a struggle",
english words ngsl 2221,web,/wɛb/,noun,"a net made by spiders; many
things connected together", english words ngsl
2222,depth,/dɛpθ/,noun,"distance below a surface", english words ngsl
2223,entrance,/ɪn•trɑɚns/,noun,"a way into a place", english words ngsl
2224,log,/lɑg/,noun,"a piece of a tree that has been cut", english words
ngsl 2225,giant,/dʒaɪ•ənt/,adj,"extremely big, or much bigger than other
things", english words ngsl 2226,god,/gɑd/,noun,"a being with special
powers that cannot be explained by nature", english words ngsl
2227,portion,/poɚ•ʃən/,noun,"part of a whole", english words ngsl
2228,substance,/sʌb•stəns/,noun,"a particular type of material", english
words ngsl 2229,extensive,/ɪks•tɛn•sɪv/,adj,"large; full or complete",
english words ngsl 2230,interpret,/ɪn•tɚ•prɪt/,verb,"to repeat what was
said in another language", english words ngsl
2231,independence,/ɪn•dɪ•pɛn•dəns/,noun,"having the freedom to make your
own decisions", english words ngsl 2232,sugar,/ʃʊ•gə/,noun,"white sweet
substance used to make foods sweeter", english words ngsl
2233,inner,/ɪ•nə/,adj,"concerning the inside part of something", english
words ngsl 2234,harm,/hɑɚm/,verb,"to hurt, damage, or cause problems",
english words ngsl 2235,consult,/kən•sʌlt/,verb,"to discuss something to
make a decision", english words ngsl 2236,pink,/pɪŋk/,adj,"pale red
color", english words ngsl 2237,shadow,/ʃæ•doʊ/,noun,"a dark shape that
appears when something stops the light", english words ngsl
2238,strip,/strɪp/,verb,"to take something away from (someone)", english
words ngsl 2239,smooth,/smuð/,adj,"something that feels pleasant and
flat when you touch it; not rough", english words ngsl
2240,intervention,/ɪn•tɚ•vɛn•ʃən/,noun,"involvement in a situation to
prevent future problems", english words ngsl
2241,impress,/ɪm•prɛs/,verb,"to make someone admire or respect another
person or thing", english words ngsl 2242,exam,/ɪg•zæm/,noun,"test of
your knowledge or ability in something", english words ngsl
2243,vice,/vaɪ•sɪ/,noun,"type of evildoing", english words ngsl
2244,radical,/ræ•dɪ•kəl/,adj,"very new and different from what is
traditional", english words ngsl 2245,similarly,/sɪmələlɪ/,adv,"in a way
that is almost the same as something or someone else", english words
ngsl 2246,behave,/bɪ•hɛɪv/,verb,"to act in a particular way; to act
correctly", english words ngsl 2247,loud,/laʊd/,adj,"making a lot of
noise", english words ngsl 2248,dimension,/dɪ•mɛn•ʃən/,noun,"measurement
of length, width, or height", english words ngsl
2249,subsequent,/sʌb•sɪ•kwənt/,adj,"happening after", english words ngsl
2250,infection,/ɪn•fɛk•ʃən/,noun,"act or state of becoming infected with
a disease", english words ngsl 2251,jacket,/dʒæ•kɪt/,noun,"a light, thin
coat", english words ngsl 2252,efficiency,/ɪ•fɪ•ʃən•sɪ/,noun,"working
well; producing something without waste", english words ngsl
2253,dirty,/dɚ•tɪ/,adj,"not clean", english words ngsl
2254,statistic,/stə•tɪs•tɪk/,noun,"a number that represents a piece of
information", english words ngsl 2255,regularly,/rɛgjʊləlɪ/,adv,"at the
usual time each day, week, or month", english words ngsl
2256,resort,/rɪ•zoɚt/,noun,"a place where people go on holiday", english
words ngsl 2257,iron,/aɪ•ən/,noun,"the hard metal used to make steel
(symbol Fe)", english words ngsl 2258,broadcast,/broɚd•kɑɚst/,verb,"to
send out signals by radio or television", english words ngsl
2259,membership,/mɛm•bə•ʃɪp/,noun,"all the people who belong to a club
or group", english words ngsl 2260,bread,/brɛd/,noun,"baked food made
from flour, used in sandwiches, etc.", english words ngsl
2261,blind,/blaɪnd/,adj,"unable to see; with eyes that cannot see",
english words ngsl 2262,pure,/pjʊə/,adj,"not mixed with anything else",
english words ngsl 2263,bloody,/blʌ•dɪ/,adj,"covered or spotted with
blood on the surface", english words ngsl
2264,ally,/ə•laɪ/,noun,"someone who supports, helps, or defends you",
english words ngsl 2265,quantity,/kwɑn•tɪ•tɪ/,noun,"amount or number of
something", english words ngsl 2266,bend,/bɛnd/,verb,"to make something
not straight; make into a curve", english words ngsl
2267,mature,/mə•tjʊə/,adj,"being an adult, being fully developed
physically", english words ngsl 2268,briefly,/briːflɪ/,adv,"happening in
a short period of time; using few words", english words ngsl
2269,alarm,/ə•lɑɚm/,noun,"sound or light used for a warning or to wake
someone", english words ngsl 2270,disturb,/dɪs•tɚb/,verb,"to stop
someone from working or sleeping", english words ngsl
2271,sustain,/səs•tɛɪn/,verb,"to maintain, lengthen or continue to do
something", english words ngsl 2272,flood,/flʌd/,noun,"a large amount of
water covering land that is usually dry", english words ngsl
2273,poverty,/pɑ•və•tɪ/,noun,"being poor", english words ngsl
2274,crazy,/krɛɪ•zɪ/,adj,"not being sensible or practical", english
words ngsl 2275,cite,/saɪt/,verb,"to mention the work of others in your
writing", english words ngsl 2276,newly,/njulɪ/,adv,"very recently; just
done or made", english words ngsl 2277,parallel,/pæ•rə•lɛl/,adj,"very
similar and often occurring at the same time", english words ngsl
2278,gender,/dʒɛn•də/,noun,"state of being male or female", english
words ngsl 2279,sponsor,/spɑn•sə/,verb,"to help someone or something
succeed by giving them money", english words ngsl
2280,boot,/but/,noun,"footwear covering your foot and part of your leg",
english words ngsl 2281,accurate,/æ•kjʊ•rɪt/,adj,"correct; not having
mistakes or errors", english words ngsl
2282,dealer,/diː•lə/,noun,"someone who buys things to sell to others",
english words ngsl 2283,button,/bʌ•tn/,noun,"small round piece of
material used to fasten clothing", english words ngsl
2284,burden,/bɚ•dn/,verb,"something that causes worry, difficulty, or
hard work", english words ngsl 2285,desert,/dɛ•zət/,noun,"area of land
that has very little water and few plants", english words ngsl
2286,mate,/mɛɪt/,noun,"someone who you work, live, or go to school
with", english words ngsl 2287,occasionally,/ə'kɛɪʒənəlɪ/,adv,"not very
often; sometimes; seldom", english words ngsl
2288,shareholder,/ʃɛɚ•hoʊl•də/,noun,"someone who owns a part of a
corporation", english words ngsl 2289,bowl,/boʊl/,noun,"a round
container used for holding things like rice or soup", english words ngsl
2290,discovery,/dɪs•kʌ•və•rɪ/,noun,"learning something for the first
time", english words ngsl 2291,resistance,/rɪ•zɪs•təns/,noun,"refusal to
accept something new or different", english words ngsl
2292,bath,/bɑɚθ/,noun,"the cleaning of a body by putting it completely
into water", english words ngsl 2293,frequency,/friː•kwən•sɪ/,noun,"how
often something happens", english words ngsl
2294,criticize,/krɪ•tɪ•saɪz/,verb,"to say that someone or something is
bad", english words ngsl 2295,tap,/tæp/,verb,"to hit something lightly",
english words ngsl 2296,philosophy,/fɪ•lɑ•sə•fɪ/,noun,"study of ideas
about the fundamental nature of life", english words ngsl
2297,lip,/lɪp/,noun,"top and bottom part of the outside of a person's
mouth", english words ngsl 2298,attribute,/ə•trɪ•bjut/,noun,"a quality
or characteristic that someone or something has (e.g., size or color)",
english words ngsl 2299,apologize,/ə•pɑ•lə•dʒaɪz/,verb,"to say sorry
because of a mistake or injury you made", english words ngsl
2300,approval,/ə•pru•vəl/,noun,"positive opinion of something or
someone", english words ngsl 2301,grab,/græb/,verb,"to quickly reach out
and take something in your hand.", english words ngsl
2302,entitle,/ɪn•taɪ•tl/,verb,"to give the right to do or have something
to someone", english words ngsl 2303,lend,/lɛnd/,verb,"to give to
someone for a while before it is returned", english words ngsl
2304,involvement,/ɪn'vɑlvmənt/,noun,"act or process of joining in a
particular activity", english words ngsl
2305,exposure,/ɪks•poʊ•ʒə/,noun,"state of experiencing something
directly", english words ngsl
2306,conventional,/kən•vɛn•ʃə•nL/,adj,"following the common attitudes
and practices", english words ngsl 2307,digital,/dɪ•dʒɪ•tl/,adj,"using
electronic signals or computers", english words ngsl
2308,translate,/træns•lɛɪt/,verb,"to change words from one language into
another", english words ngsl 2309,edit,/ɛ•dɪt/,verb,"to check and makes
changes before publication", english words ngsl
2310,formation,/foɚ•mɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"process of creating, or making into a
particular shape", english words ngsl
2311,deposit,/dɪ•pɑ•zɪt/,noun,"money that is given for a special purpose
such as proof that you will buy something, or as savings in a bank",
english words ngsl 2312,pleasant,/plɛ•znt/,adj,"causing a good feeling",
english words ngsl 2313,overseas,/oʊ•və•siːz/,adv,"in or to a foreign
country that is across a sea", english words ngsl
2314,advocate,/æd•və•kɛɪt/,verb,"to publicly support a belief, or to
request a change", english words ngsl
2315,establishment,/ɪs•tæb•lɪʃ•mənt/,noun,"organization, institution, or
place to do business", english words ngsl
2316,summary,/sʌ•mə•rɪ/,noun,"a brief statement that gives the most
important information", english words ngsl 2317,rough,/rʌf/,adj,"not
smooth, gentle, or careful", english words ngsl
2318,pen,/pɛn/,noun,"something you write with that uses ink", english
words ngsl 2319,recovery,/rɪ•kʌ•və•rɪ/,noun,"process of returning to a
former state after problems", english words ngsl
2320,seal,/siːl/,verb,"to make something so that it does not leak air or
water", english words ngsl 2321,tube,/tjub/,noun,"long, hollow object",
english words ngsl 2322,tower,/toʊ•ə/,noun,"a tall, narrow building",
english words ngsl 2323,characterize,/kæ•rɪk•tə•raɪz/,verb,"to describe
the qualities of a person, place, thing", english words ngsl
2324,specify,/spɛ•sɪ•faɪ/,verb,"to state, name, or mention exactly and
clearly", english words ngsl 2325,exact,/ɪg•zækt/,adj,"completely
correct; accurate; specific", english words ngsl
2326,spin,/spɪn/,verb,"to turn around repeatedly", english words ngsl
2327,operator,/ɑ•pə•rɛɪ•tə/,noun,"someone who uses and controls
something, usually equipment", english words ngsl
2328,infant,/ɪn•fənt/,noun,"child in the beginning stage of life; a
baby", english words ngsl 2329,dig,/dɪg/,verb,"to move material to
create a hole", english words ngsl 2330,drag,/dræg/,verb,"to pull
something that is difficult to move", english words ngsl
2331,mount,/maʊnt/,verb,"to organize and begin an action; to attach to a
support", english words ngsl 2332,wrap,/ræp/,verb,"to cover something on
all sides with a piece of material or paper", english words ngsl
2333,anticipate,/æn•tɪ•sɪ•pɛɪt/,verb,"to expect or look ahead to
something positively", english words ngsl
2334,dependent,/dɪ•pɛn•dənt/,adj,"someone who depends on another for
(financial) support", english words ngsl
2335,specialize,/spɛ•ʃə•laɪz/,verb,"to focus on one area of a field or
profession", english words ngsl 2336,angle,/æŋ•gl/,noun,"a place where
two lines or surfaces meet", english words ngsl
2337,chicken,/tʃɪ•kɪn/,noun,"a large bird that is raised on farms for
its eggs and meat", english words ngsl
2338,anxiety,/æŋ•zaɪ•ə•tɪ/,noun,"fear about what might happen; worry",
english words ngsl 2339,virus,/vaɪ•ə•rəs/,noun,"a very small, basic
living thing that causes disease or sickness", english words ngsl
2340,precisely,/prɪ'saɪslɪ/,adv,"in an exact and accurate manner",
english words ngsl 2341,rival,/raɪ•vəl/,adj,"a person, team, or
organization that competes with another; a competitor", english words
ngsl 2342,offense,/ə•fɛns/,noun,"criminal act; something that causes
hurt", english words ngsl 2343,detect,/dɪ•tɛkt/,verb,"to discover or
identify the presence of something", english words ngsl
2344,teenager,/tiːn•ɛɪ•dʒə/,noun,"a person between the ages of 13 and
19", english words ngsl 2345,admire,/əd•maɪ•ə/,verb,"to feel respect or
wonder toward someone", english words ngsl
2346,moderate,/mɑ•də•rɛɪt/,adj,"average in size or amount", english
words ngsl 2347,surgery,/sɚ•dʒə•rɪ/,noun,"medical treatment in which a
doctor cuts into a body", english words ngsl
2348,musician,/mju•zɪ•ʃən/,noun,"a person who writes, sings, or plays
music, as a job", english words ngsl
2349,significance,/sɪg•nɪ•fɪ•kəns/,noun,"importance of something; the
potential for something to have a big effect", english words ngsl
2350,shower,/ʃaʊ•ə/,noun,"the cleaning of a body by standing under
falling water", english words ngsl 2351,illegal,/ɪ•liː•gəl/,adj,"not
allowed by the laws or rules", english words ngsl
2352,charity,/tʃæ•rɪ•tɪ/,noun,"organization providing help to the needy,
the sick", english words ngsl 2353,universal,/ju•nɪ•vɚ•səl/,adj,"done or
experienced by everyone", english words ngsl
2354,cigarette,/sɪ•gə•rɛt/,noun,"a small paper tube filled with
tobacco", english words ngsl 2355,constitute,/kɑn•stɪ•tjut/,verb,"to
make up or be part of something", english words ngsl
2356,adequate,/æ•dɪ•kwɪt/,adj,"enough; good enough for what is needed",
english words ngsl 2357,consultant,/kən•sʌl•tənt/,noun,"expert who gives
(paid) advice", english words ngsl
2358,historian,/hɪs•toɚ•riːɚn/,noun,"someone who studies or writes about
the course of history", english words ngsl 2359,cousin,/kʌ•zn/,noun,"a
child of your uncle or aunt", english words ngsl
2360,visual,/vɪ•zjʊəl/,adj,"something to look at with the eyes", english
words ngsl 2361,stupid,/stju•pɪd/,adj,"lacking the ability to learn
easily; not intelligent", english words ngsl 2362,keen,/kiːn/,adj,"being
eager or excited for something to happen", english words ngsl
2363,ethnic,/ɛθ•nɪk/,adj,"connected with people who share a cultural
tradition", english words ngsl 2364,twin,/twɪn/,noun,"two children born
from the same mother at the same time", english words ngsl
2365,clinical,/klɪ•nɪ•kəl/,adj,"related to the examination and treatment
of patients", english words ngsl 2366,eastern,/iːs•tən/,adj,"being in
the area to the east", english words ngsl
2367,forecast,/foɚ•kɑɚst/,noun,"a prediction of some future thing (e.g.,
the weather)", english words ngsl 2368,segment,/sɛg•mənt/,noun,"part
divided from the other parts of something", english words ngsl
2369,custom,/kʌs•təm/,noun,"what is usual or normal", english words ngsl
2370,adapt,/ə•dæpt/,verb,"to change something to fit or suit a new
purpose", english words ngsl 2371,sand,/sænd/,noun,"grains of rock that
make beaches and deserts", english words ngsl
2372,cap,/kæp/,noun,"small, soft hat often with a front visor or shade",
english words ngsl 2373,prompt,/prɑmpt/,verb,"being done quickly and
with no delay", english words ngsl 2374,charm,/tʃɑɚm/,noun,"quality of
making people like you; attractiveness", english words ngsl
2375,react,/riː•ækt/,verb,"to behave or make a change in a particular
way", english words ngsl 2376,lecture,/lɛk•tʃə/,noun,"talk or speech
about a particular subject", english words ngsl
2377,venture,/vɛn•tʃə/,noun,"activity that involves taking chances or
risks", english words ngsl 2378,compound,/kəm•paʊnd/,noun,"combined
into, or making up a chemical combination", english words ngsl
2379,rescue,/rɛs•kju/,verb,"to save something from danger or harm",
english words ngsl 2380,mess,/mɛs/,noun,"dirty or untidy area", english
words ngsl 2381,preference,/prɛfrəns/,noun,"something that is liked or
wanted more than another", english words ngsl
2382,comprehensive,/kɑm•prɪ•hɛn•sɪv/,adj,"including most or all things",
english words ngsl 2383,incentive,/ɪn•sɛn•tɪv/,noun,"something that
encourages a person to work hard", english words ngsl
2384,league,/liːg/,noun,"association of sports teams that organizes
matches for its members", english words ngsl
2385,dialog,/daj•ə•lɑːg/,noun,"conversation between two or more
individuals", english words ngsl 2386,cream,/kriːm/,noun,"the thick
white liquid that comes from milk and is used in cooking", english words
ngsl 2387,rapid,/ræ•pɪd/,adj,"happening very quickly", english words
ngsl 2388,cancel,/kæn•səl/,verb,"to stop a planned event from
happening", english words ngsl 2389,regret,/rɪ•grɛt/,verb,"to be sorry
about something", english words ngsl 2390,dismiss,/dɪs•mɪs/,verb,"to
send someone away", english words ngsl 2391,margin,/mɑɚ•dʒɪn/,noun,"the
empty space at the top, bottom, and sides of a written or printed page",
english words ngsl 2392,beneath,/bɪ•niːθ/,prep,"under; in or to a lower
position; below", english words ngsl 2393,opponent,/ə•poʊ•nənt/,noun,"a
person that you are competing against in a game or contest", english
words ngsl 2394,resist,/rɪ•zɪst/,verb,"to try to stop or prevent
something", english words ngsl
2395,capability,/kɛɪ•pə•bɪ•lɪ•tɪ/,noun,"means, ability, or potential to
do something", english words ngsl
2396,absolute,/æb•sə•lut/,adj,"complete and total", english words ngsl
2397,correspond,/kɑ•rɪs•pɑnd/,verb,"to have similarity or equality with
something", english words ngsl 2398,stroke,/stroʊk/,verb,"to touch
someone or something repeatedly in a caring way", english words ngsl
2399,dare,/dɛɚ/,verb,"to have enough courage to do something", english
words ngsl 2400,barrier,/bæ•riːɚ/,noun,"structure or object that stops
free movement", english words ngsl 2401,rid,/rɪd/,verb,"to no longer be
wanted so you throw it away", english words ngsl
2402,divorce,/dɪ•voɚs/,noun,"legal ending of a marriage", english words
ngsl 2403,ruin,/rʊ•ɪn/,verb,"to spoil something, to make it useless",
english words ngsl 2404,bury,/bɛ•rɪ/,verb,"to put something into the
ground and cover it", english words ngsl
2405,counsel,/kaʊn•səl/,verb,"to listen and give expert advice to
someone", english words ngsl 2406,tendency,/tɛn•dən•sɪ/,noun,"quality
that something happens or someone behaves in a particular way", english
words ngsl 2407,frequent,/friː•kwənt/,adj,"happening often", english
words ngsl 2408,motor,/moʊ•tə/,noun,"a machine that uses energy to make
something work or move", english words ngsl
2409,survival,/sə•vaɪ•vəl/,noun,"act of continuing to exist when facing
difficulty", english words ngsl 2410,counter,/kaʊn•tə/,noun,"a long,
flat surface in a shop or kitchen where work is done", english words
ngsl 2411,possess,/pə•zɛs/,verb,"to have or own something", english
words ngsl 2412,permission,/pɚ•mɪ•ʃən/,noun,"right to do something as
allowed by another", english words ngsl 2413,valley,/væ•lɪ/,noun,"long,
low area between hills or mountains, often with a river running through
it", english words ngsl 2414,float,/floʊt/,verb,"to stay on the surface
of a liquid and not sink", english words ngsl 2415,mad,/mæd/,adj,"very
angry, very strong feelings, crazy", english words ngsl
2416,greatly,/grɛɪtlɪ/,adv,"very much", english words ngsl
2417,visible,/vɪ•zə•bl/,adj,"easily seen or understood", english words
ngsl 2418,electric,/ɪ•lɛk•trɪk/,adj,"using a particular type of energy
carried through metal wire", english words ngsl
2419,impressive,/ɪm•prɛ•sɪv/,adj,"something makes someone admire or
respect", english words ngsl 2420,evolution,/iː•və•lu•ʃən/,noun,"slow,
steady change or development", english words ngsl
2421,awareness,/ə'wɛɚnəs/,noun,"having knowledge of something", english
words ngsl 2422,violent,/vaɪ•ə•lənt/,adj,"done with force; likely to
cause physical damage", english words ngsl
2423,slave,/slɛɪv/,noun,"someone who is legally owned by another
person", english words ngsl 2424,wealthy,/wɛl•θɪ/,adj,"having a great
amount of money or property", english words ngsl
2425,architecture,/ɑɚ•kɪ•tɛk•tʃə/,noun,"design and construction of
buildings", english words ngsl
2426,acceptable,/ək•sɛp•tə•bl/,adj,"satisfactory; good enough", english
words ngsl 2427,journal,/dʒɚ•nL/,noun,"a written record of subjects or
events", english words ngsl 2428,coal,/koʊl/,noun,"dark hard substance
from the earth burnt as a fuel", english words ngsl
2429,measurement,/mɛ•ʒə•mənt/,noun,"the finding of the size or amount of
something or someone", english words ngsl
2430,random,/ræn•dəm/,adj,"chosen or done without a plan or pattern",
english words ngsl 2431,successfully,/sək'sɛsfəlɪ/,adv,"in a manner that
achieves a goal", english words ngsl 2432,depress,/dɪ•prɛs/,verb,"to
make someone feel very sad; to reduce the value of something", english
words ngsl 2433,illustration,/ɪ•ləs•trɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"picture that helps
explain something", english words ngsl 2434,burst,/bɚst/,verb,"to break
in a sudden and violent way", english words ngsl
2435,privilege,/prɪ•vɪ•lɪdʒ/,noun,"advantage or right that is given to
only a certain person or group of people", english words ngsl
2436,buyer,/baɪ•ə/,noun,"someone who gets something by paying money for
it", english words ngsl 2437,mutual,/mju•tjʊəl/,adj,"shared between two
or more people", english words ngsl 2438,rail,/rɛɪl/,noun,"long, thin
piece of metal", english words ngsl 2439,motivate,/moʊ•tɪ•vɛɪt/,verb,"to
make someone excited about doing something", english words ngsl
2440,laboratory,/lə•bɑ•rə•tə•rɪ/,noun,"a place for doing research and
experiments", english words ngsl
2441,mortgage,/moɚ•gɪdʒ/,noun,"long-term loan from a bank for buying
property", english words ngsl 2442,promotion,/prə•moʊ•ʃən/,noun,"moving
someone to a more important position", english words ngsl
2443,passion,/pæ•ʃən/,noun,"powerful, positive feeling about something",
english words ngsl 2444,champion,/tʃæm•pjən/,noun,"person who fights for
or supports strongly", english words ngsl
2445,fulfill,/fʊl•fɪl/,verb,"to do something that was promised or
required", english words ngsl 2446,dust,/dʌst/,noun,"fine dry powder
that builds up on surfaces", english words ngsl
2447,dedicate,/dɛ•dɪ•kɛɪt/,verb,"to give your energy, time, etc.,
completely to someone", english words ngsl 2448,roughly,/rʌflɪ/,adv,"in
an inexact or imprecise manner", english words ngsl
2449,skirt,/skɚt/,noun,"piece of clothing for the lower body worn by
women", english words ngsl 2450,province,/prɑ•vɪns/,noun,"area that a
country or nation is divided into", english words ngsl
2451,march,/mɑɚtʃ/,verb,"to walk with regular steps as a group", english
words ngsl 2452,evaluation,/ɪ•væ•ljʊ•ɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"judgment about the
value or condition of something", english words ngsl
2453,compromise,/kɑm•prə•maɪz/,verb,"an agreement in which each side
must give up some things", english words ngsl
2454,accomplish,/ə•kɑm•plɪʃ/,verb,"to succeed in doing; complete
successfully", english words ngsl 2455,weakness,/wiːknəs/,noun,"quality
of not being powerful or strong", english words ngsl
2456,announcement,/ə•naʊn•smənt/,noun,"act of informing people about
something publicly", english words ngsl 2457,salt,/soɚlt/,noun,"natural
white substance used to flavor or preserve food", english words ngsl
2458,glance,/glɑɚns/,verb,"to look at someone or something quickly",
english words ngsl 2459,opera,/ɑ•pə•rə/,noun,"play with music in which
all the words are sung", english words ngsl
2460,contest,/kən•tɛst/,noun,"an event in which people try to win",
english words ngsl 2461,brush,/brʌʃ/,noun,"thing used to comb your hair
or to clean the floor", english words ngsl
2462,embarrass,/ɪm'bærəs/,verb,"to cause someone to feel uncomfortable
about something", english words ngsl 2463,gallery,/gæ•lə•rɪ/,noun,"place
to look at various types of art", english words ngsl
2464,genetic,/dʒɪ•nɛ•tɪk/,adj,"concerning the parts of a cell that
determine particular characteristics", english words ngsl
2465,aggressive,/ə•grɛ•sɪv/,adj,"behaving in a very threatening way",
english words ngsl 2466,chest,/tʃɛst/,noun,"the front of your body
between your neck and your waist", english words ngsl
2467,format,/foɚ•mæt/,noun,"form, design, or arrangement of something",
english words ngsl 2468,literary,/lɪ•tə•rə•rɪ/,adj,"concerned with
written works", english words ngsl 2469,govern,/gʌ•vən/,verb,"to
officially control and lead an area", english words ngsl
2470,embrace,/ɪm•brɛɪs/,verb,"to hold someone closely", english words
ngsl 2471,praise,/prɛɪz/,verb,"to express approval of something or
someone", english words ngsl 2472,silent,/saɪ•lənt/,adj,"not speaking or
making noise", english words ngsl 2473,pump,/pʌmp/,verb,"to make water
or any other liquid move using a machine", english words ngsl
2474,publisher,/pʌb•lɪ•ʃə/,noun,"business that produces books or
magazines", english words ngsl
2475,celebration,/sɛ•lɪ•brɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"special event where people show
the importance of something", english words ngsl
2476,golf,/gɑlf/,noun,"game played to hit a ball into a hole with a
stick", english words ngsl
2477,compensation,/kɑm•pɛn•sɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"money given or received as
payment for loss", english words ngsl
2478,classical,/klæ•sɪ•kəl/,adj,"concerning ideas considered to be
traditional", english words ngsl 2479,weigh,/wɛɪ/,verb,"to determine the
weight of, using scales", english words ngsl
2480,versus,/vɚ•səs/,prep,"used to show that a thing or person is
against another thing or person", english words ngsl
2481,deficit,/dɛ•fɪ•sɪt/,noun,"an amount that is less than needed",
english words ngsl 2482,modify,/mɑ•dɪ•faɪ/,verb,"to make small changes
to something", english words ngsl 2483,flash,/flæʃ/,noun,"sudden bright
light", english words ngsl 2484,friendship,/frɛn•dʃɪp/,noun,"feeling of
liking someone; good relationship", english words ngsl
2485,profession,/prə•fɛ•ʃən/,noun,"job requiring special education or
skills", english words ngsl 2486,literally,/lɪtərəlɪ/,adv,"in a way that
expresses the exact meaning of something", english words ngsl
2487,equation,/ɪ•kwɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"a statement showing things to be
equal", english words ngsl 2488,gesture,/dʒɛs•tʃə/,noun,"a hand or body
movement that expresses a particular idea or feeling", english words
ngsl 2489,entertain,/ɛn•tə•tɛɪn/,verb,"to take care of guests by helping
them enjoy their time", english words ngsl
2490,fantastic,/fæn•tæs•tɪk/,adj,"very fanciful in design, construction,
or appearance", english words ngsl 2491,assign,/ə•saɪn/,verb,"to give
someone a particular job or something to do", english words ngsl
2492,inflation,/ɪn•flɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"continual rise in the prices of
products", english words ngsl 2493,historic,/hɪs•tɑ•rɪk/,adj,"belonging
to the past; of what is important or famous in the past", english words
ngsl 2494,injure,/ɪn•dʒə/,verb,"do physical harm or damage", english
words ngsl 2495,remote,/rɪ•moʊt/,adj,"far away", english words ngsl
2496,therapy,/θɛ•rə•pɪ/,noun,"treatment intended to help fix your
problem or medical illness", english words ngsl
2497,orange,/ɑ•rɪndʒ/,adj,"a color that is a mixture of red and yellow",
english words ngsl 2498,twist,/twɪst/,verb,"to turn something in
opposite directions at the same time", english words ngsl
2499,personnel,/pɚ•sə•nɛl/,noun,"group of people who work for a
company", english words ngsl
2500,imagination,/ɪ•mæ•dʒɪ•nɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"the ability to think of new
ideas or things that are not real", english words ngsl
2501,disagree,/dɪ•sə•griː/,verb,"to have a different opinion from
someone", english words ngsl 2502,throat,/θroʊt/,noun,"passage inside
the neck used to swallow and breathe", english words ngsl
2503,insight,/ɪn•saɪt/,noun,"a clear idea about how something works",
english words ngsl 2504,tackle,/tæ•kl/,verb,"to take action to solve a
difficult problem", english words ngsl 2505,forever,/fə•rɛ•və/,adv,"for
a very long or seemingly endless time", english words ngsl
2506,exceed,/ɪk•siːd/,verb,"to be greater in number than something",
english words ngsl 2507,expenditure,/ɪks•pɛn•dɪ•tʃə/,noun,"amount of
money used during a certain time", english words ngsl
2508,joy,/dʒoɪ/,noun,"feeling of great happiness and pleasure", english
words ngsl 2509,pregnant,/prɛg•nənt/,adj,"when women carry a child
inside them that is not yet born", english words ngsl
2510,reliable,/rɪ•laɪ•ə•bl/,adj,"deserving of your trust, dependable",
english words ngsl 2511,gear,/giːɚ/,noun,"special supplies, tools, or
clothes needed for a particular activity; machinery that turns power
into forward or backward movement", english words ngsl
2512,poet,/poʊ•ɪt/,noun,"person who writes poems", english words ngsl
2513,fortune,/foɚ•tʃən/,noun,"chance or luck, particularly good luck",
english words ngsl 2514,ceremony,/sɛ•rɪ•mə•nɪ/,noun,"special social or
religious event", english words ngsl 2515,pile,/paɪl/,noun,"group of
things one on top of another", english words ngsl
2516,pig,/pɪg/,noun,"farm animal that gives bacon and ham", english
words ngsl 2517,mixture,/mɪk•stʃə/,noun,"something made by combining two
or more things", english words ngsl
2518,automatically,/oɚtə'mætɪklɪ/,adv,"in a way not requiring control by
a person", english words ngsl 2519,scholar,/skɑ•lə/,noun,"a person who
studies and knows a lot about a particular subject", english words ngsl
2520,psychological,/saɪ•kə•lɑ•dʒɪ•kəl/,adj,"having to do with the mind",
english words ngsl 2521,dramatically,/drə'mætɪklɪ/,adv,"in a sudden or
extreme manner", english words ngsl 2522,stake,/stɛɪk/,verb,"a strong
stick with a pointed end that you push into the ground", english words
ngsl 2523,creature,/kriː•tʃə/,noun,"animal of any type", english words
ngsl 2524,partnership,/pɑɚt•nə•ʃɪp/,noun,"working with others for some
purpose", english words ngsl
2525,participation,/pɑɚ•tɪ•sɪ•pɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"act of being involved in
something", english words ngsl 2526,clause,/kloɚz/,noun,"a separate part
of a contract, a will, or another legal document", english words ngsl
2527,penalty,/pɛ•nL•tɪ/,noun,"punishment for committing a crime or
offense", english words ngsl 2528,chamber,/tʃɛɪm•bə/,noun,"a room or
space inside something used for a special purpose", english words ngsl
2529,fancy,/fæn•sɪ/,adj,"not plain or ordinary, expensive", english
words ngsl 2530,poetry,/poʊ•ɪ•trɪ/,noun,"poetic writing; imaginative
verses", english words ngsl 2531,chat,/tʃæt/,verb,"to talk in a friendly
and relaxed manner", english words ngsl
2532,clothing,/kloʊ•ðɪŋ/,noun,"things you wear on your body", english
words ngsl 2533,evolve,/ɪ•vɑlv/,verb,"to slowly change or develop into
something better", english words ngsl 2534,sake,/sɑɚ•kɪ/,noun,"interest
or benefit of someone or something", english words ngsl
2535,shelf,/ʃɛlf/,noun,"flat board attached to a wall on which to store
things", english words ngsl 2536,boost,/bust/,verb,"to help increasing
progress or growth", english words ngsl 2537,tail,/tɛɪl/,noun,"back end
of an animal's body that sticks out", english words ngsl
2538,possession,/pə•zɛ•ʃən/,noun,"having or owning something", english
words ngsl 2539,abortion,/ə•boɚ•ʃən/,noun,"a medical operation to end
the time when a female is going to have a baby", english words ngsl
2540,curious,/kjʊə•riːɚs/,adj,"wanting to know more about something",
english words ngsl 2541,wooden,/wʊ•dn/,adj,"made of wood", english words
ngsl 2542,boom,/bum/,verb,"to make a deep hollow resonant sound",
english words ngsl 2543,tale,/tɛɪl/,noun,"story about colorful and
imaginary events", english words ngsl
2544,democratic,/dɛ•mə•kræ•tɪk/,adj,"of democracy; entitling the people
to power", english words ngsl
2545,maintenance,/mɛɪn•tɪ•nəns/,noun,"keeping (a machine) working by
checking and fixing it", english words ngsl
2546,consequently,/kɑnsɪkwəntlɪ/,adv,"therefore; as a result of
something", english words ngsl 2547,pot,/pɑt/,noun,"deep, round
container that is used for cooking", english words ngsl
2548,cow,/kaʊ/,noun,"large farm animal from which we get milk and beef",
english words ngsl 2549,strengthen,/strɛŋ•θən/,verb,"to make something
stronger", english words ngsl 2550,whilst,/waɪlst/,conj,"during the time
that; at the same time", english words ngsl
2551,constraint,/kən•strɛɪnt/,noun,"something that limits or prevents
someone or something from moving", english words ngsl
2552,fold,/foʊld/,verb,"to move one part of something so that it lies on
top of another part", english words ngsl 2553,bin,/bɪn/,noun,"a
container for storing things", english words ngsl
2554,undergo,/ʌn•də•goʊ/,verb,"to experience something, often bad",
english words ngsl 2555,potentially,/pə'tɛnʃəlɪ/,adv,"that could happen
or become reality", english words ngsl 2556,scope,/skoʊp/,noun,"range of
things that something includes", english words ngsl
2557,pretend,/prɪ•tɛnd/,verb,"to act as if something is true when it is
not", english words ngsl 2558,diversity,/daɪ•vɚ•sɪ•tɪ/,noun,"state or
quality of having a range of different things", english words ngsl
2559,allege,/ə•lɛdʒ/,verb,"to state without proof", english words ngsl
2560,pride,/praɪd/,noun,"when you respect yourself", english words ngsl
2561,intense,/ɪn•tɛns/,adj,"very strong, great, or extreme in degree",
english words ngsl 2562,inquiry,/ɪn•kwaɪ•ə•rɪ/,noun,"request for
information", english words ngsl 2563,resign,/rɪ•zaɪn/,verb,"to leave a
job because you want to", english words ngsl
2564,craft,/krɑɚft/,verb,"to make by hand and with much skill", english
words ngsl 2565,strict,/strɪkt/,adj,"must be obeyed", english words ngsl
2566,concrete,/kɑn•kriːt/,noun,"hard substance used in building made by
mixing cement, sand, small stones, and water", english words ngsl
2567,shell,/ʃɛl/,noun,"hard outer covering that protects", english words
ngsl 2568,damn,/dæm/,verb,"to say someone should be punished for their
bad behavior", english words ngsl 2569,distinct,/dɪs•tɪŋkt/,adj,"clearly
different in nature from something else", english words ngsl
2570,humor,/hjuː•mɚ/,noun,"quality of being funny", english words ngsl
2571,limitation,/lɪ•mɪ•tɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"act of controlling or reducing the
size of something", english words ngsl
2572,indication,/ɪn•dɪ•kɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"something that signals that
something else exists or will happen", english words ngsl
2573,stability,/stə•bɪ•lɪ•tɪ/,noun,"quality of not being easily moved or
changed", english words ngsl 2574,wise,/waɪz/,adj,"knowledgeable about
life; having good judgment", english words ngsl
2575,neglect,/nɪ•glɛkt/,verb,"to fail to take care of something",
english words ngsl 2576,compose,/kəm•poʊz/,verb,"to come together to
form or make something", english words ngsl
2577,jail,/dʒɛɪl/,noun,"place to hold criminals being punished for a
crime", english words ngsl 2578,shelter,/ʃɛl•tə/,noun,"a place to live
or stay that protects someone from weather", english words ngsl
2579,mere,/miːɚ2/,adj,"small and unimportant", english words ngsl
2580,carbon,/kɑɚ•bən/,noun,"a chemical element (C) found in all living
things", english words ngsl 2581,regulate,/rɛ•gjʊ•lɛɪt/,verb,"to make
rules or laws to control something or someone", english words ngsl
2582,cheese,/tʃiːz/,noun,"a yellow or white food made from milk",
english words ngsl 2583,trigger,/trɪ•gə/,verb,"to make something start
happening", english words ngsl 2584,pipe,/paɪp/,noun,"tube a round,
hollow piece of metal, plastic, or wood", english words ngsl
2585,destruction,/dɪs•trʌk•ʃən/,noun,"damaging something so badly that
it no longer exists", english words ngsl
2586,guitar,/gɪ•tɑɚ/,noun,"stringed musical instrument played with the
fingers", english words ngsl 2587,flag,/flæg/,noun,"piece of cloth,
frequently marked with a colorful symbol or sign", english words ngsl
2588,piano,/pjæ•noʊ/,noun,"keyboard instrument used for playing music",
english words ngsl 2589,magic,/mæ•dʒɪk/,noun,"a special power that
allows impossible things to happen", english words ngsl
2590,mystery,/mɪs•tə•rɪ/,noun,"book, play, or film that deals with a
solution of a strange crime", english words ngsl
2591,ski,/skiː/,noun,"one of a pair of long flat boards attached to
boots for moving smoothly over snow", english words ngsl
2592,whisper,/wɪs•pə/,verb,"to talk with breath but no voice", english
words ngsl 2593,rear,/riːɚ/,adj,"towards the back part of something",
english words ngsl 2594,menu,/mɛ•nju/,noun,"list of dishes available at
a restaurant", english words ngsl 2595,species,/spiː•ʃiːz/,noun,"a group
of related animals or plant", english words ngsl
2596,moon,/mun/,noun,"round object circling the earth at night", english
words ngsl 2597,presumably,/prɪ'zjuməblɪ/,adv,"concerning a true or
likely nature", english words ngsl 2598,bless,/blɛs/,verb,"to ask the
gods to protect someone or something", english words ngsl
2599,airline,/ɛɚlaɪn/,noun,"company that flies passengers in its
planes", english words ngsl 2600,amendment,/ə•mɛn•dmənt/,noun,"a change,
addition, or improvement to something", english words ngsl
2601,grandmother,/græn•mʌ•ðə/,noun,"mother of your mother or father",
english words ngsl 2602,jury,/dʒʊə•rɪ/,noun,"group of people who listen
to information about something and make a decision", english words ngsl
2603,cooperation,/koʊ•ɑː•pə•reɪ•ʃən/,noun,"a situation where everyone
works together to get something done", english words ngsl
2604,civilian,/sɪ•vɪ•ljən/,noun,"ordinary person who is not in the
army", english words ngsl
2605,composition,/kɑm•pə•zɪ•ʃən/,noun,"something that is created from
different parts to make something new", english words ngsl
2606,coin,/koɪn/,noun,"a small, flat piece of metal used as money",
english words ngsl 2607,regardless,/rɪ'gɑɚdləs/,adj,"without being
affected or concerned by something difficult or troubling", english
words ngsl 2608,scan,/skæn/,verb,"to look within something for a
particular person or thing", english words ngsl
2609,bunch,/bʌntʃ/,noun,"group of things of the same kind", english
words ngsl 2610,racial,/rɛɪ•ʃəl/,adj,"relating to a person's group based
on inherited physical appearance", english words ngsl
2611,greet,/griːt/,verb,"to meet someone with friendly words and
actions; to welcome", english words ngsl
2612,hopefully,/hoʊpfəlɪ/,adv,"in a manner wishing something to happen",
english words ngsl 2613,sanction,/sæŋ•kʃən/,noun,"action taken to force
a country to obey laws", english words ngsl 2614,trick,/trɪk/,verb,"to
make someone believe something that is not true", english words ngsl
2615,paragraph,/pæ•rə•grɑɚf/,noun,"section of writing that usually deals
with one subject", english words ngsl 2616,maker,/mɛɪ•kə/,noun,"person,
company, or object that creates things", english words ngsl
2617,chocolate,/tʃɑ•kə•lɪt/,noun,"a sweet brown food made from cocoa
beans", english words ngsl 2618,stimulate,/stɪ•mjʊ•lɛɪt/,verb,"excite to
action", english words ngsl 2619,belt,/bɛlt/,noun,"band of material worn
around a person's waist", english words ngsl
2620,potato,/pə•tɛɪ•toʊ/,noun,"edible vegetable", english words ngsl
2621,narrative,/næ•rə•tɪv/,noun,"the telling of a story", english words
ngsl 2622,tissue,/tɪ•sju/,noun,"piece of thin, soft paper", english
words ngsl 2623,barely,/bɛɚlɪ/,adv,"almost not possible or does not
happen", english words ngsl 2624,invent,/ɪn•vɛnt/,verb,"to create
something useful for the first time", english words ngsl
2625,tourism,/tʊərɪzəm/,noun,"traveling to new places (e.g., abroad, for
vacations)", english words ngsl 2626,pro,/proʊ/,noun,"someone who earns
money doing something they are particularly good at", english words ngsl
2627,stair,/stɛɚ/,noun,"steps that go from one level to another",
english words ngsl 2628,hesitate,/hɛ•zɪ•tɛɪt/,verb,"to stop before doing
something because you are unsure what to do", english words ngsl
2629,shine,/ʃaɪn/,verb,"to make bright light", english words ngsl
2630,motivation,/moʊ•tɪ•vɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"feeling in a person that makes
him or her want to do something", english words ngsl
2631,romantic,/rə•mæn•tɪk/,adj,"related to strong feelings of love
between two people", english words ngsl 2632,firmly,/fɚmlɪ/,adv,"in a
hard, steady, unchanging way", english words ngsl
2633,interior,/ɪn•tiːɚ•riːɚ/,adj,"inside part of something", english
words ngsl 2634,stomach,/stʌ•mək/,noun,"place in the body where food is
broken down so your body can use it", english words ngsl
2635,nowhere,/noʊ•wɛɚ/,adv,"not in or at any place; no place", english
words ngsl 2636,pray,/prɛɪ/,verb,"to wish or hope for something to
happen or be true", english words ngsl
2637,championship,/tʃæm•pjən•ʃɪp/,noun,"sports competition to find the
best player or team", english words ngsl 2638,servant,/sɚ•vənt/,noun,"a
person who works in another person's house and takes care of them",
english words ngsl 2639,immigrant,/ɪ•mɪ•grənt/,noun,"person moving to
another country to live there", english words ngsl
2640,excess,/ɪk•sɛs/,noun,"amount that is more than necessary", english
words ngsl 2641,complexity,/kəm•plɛk•sɪ•tɪ/,noun,"state of having many
parts and not being simple", english words ngsl
2642,liability,/laɪ•ə•bɪ•lɪ•tɪ/,noun,"something that is owed to someone
else (e.g., a debt)", english words ngsl
2643,surprisingly,/sə'praɪzɪŋlɪ/,adv,"in an unexpected way", english
words ngsl 2644,extract,/ɪks•trækt/,verb,"to take something out of
something else", english words ngsl
2645,implementation,/ɪm•plɪ•mɛn•tɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"making a law, system, or
plan start to happen or be used", english words ngsl
2646,bias,/baɪ•əs/,noun,"a strong feeling not based on facts to believe
one thing over another", english words ngsl
2647,differently,/dɪfrəntlɪ/,adv,"in a way that is not the same",
english words ngsl 2648,catalog,/kæt•ə•lɑːg/,noun,"list of items that
are available for purchase", english words ngsl
2649,continuous,/kən•tɪ•njʊəs/,adj,"happening without stops", english
words ngsl 2650,golden,/goʊl•dən/,adj,"made of valuable, heavy, yellow
metal", english words ngsl 2651,stamp,/stæmp/,noun,"small piece of paper
you buy to put on a letter that you mail", english words ngsl
2652,guideline,/gaɪd•laɪn/,noun,"rule, instruction, or principle",
english words ngsl 2653,envelope,/ɛn•vɪ•loʊp/,noun,"cover for a letter
or card", english words ngsl 2654,knife,/naɪf/,noun,"long piece of metal
you use for cutting things", english words ngsl
2655,biological,/baɪ•ə•lɑ•dʒɪ•kəl/,adj,"something related to life and
living things", english words ngsl 2656,consume,/kən•sjum/,verb,"to eat,
drink, buy or use up something", english words ngsl
2657,luxury,/lʌk•ʃə•rɪ/,noun,"something expensive or costly that is not
needed which is bought for pleasure", english words ngsl
2658,weekly,/wiːk•lɪ/,adv,"happening once a week", english words ngsl
2659,wherever,/wɛɚr•ɛ•və/,adv,"in any situation or at any time that",
english words ngsl 2660,bite,/baɪt/,verb,"to press down on or cut into
something with the teeth", english words ngsl
2661,printer,/prɪn•tə/,noun,"machine that makes copies of papers and
documents", english words ngsl 2662,firstly,/fɚstlɪ/,adv,"before
anything else", english words ngsl 2663,anxious,/æŋ•kʃəs/,adj,"afraid of
what may happen; worried and nervous", english words ngsl
2664,adventure,/əd•vɛn•tʃə/,noun,"an exciting and often dangerous
experience", english words ngsl 2665,fence,/fɛns/,noun,"a wooden or
metal structure that separates an area", english words ngsl
2666,exhaust,/ɪg•zoɚst/,verb,"very very tired", english words ngsl
2667,attraction,/ə•træk•ʃən/,noun,"interesting place people want to
visit", english words ngsl 2668,ocean,/oʊ•ʃən/,noun,"large body of salt
water that covers most of the surface of the earth", english words ngsl
2669,quietly,/kwaɪətlɪ/,adv,"making little sound", english words ngsl
2670,castle,/kɑɚ•sl/,noun,"a strong building used in the past to protect
people in times of war", english words ngsl
2671,veteran,/vɛ•tə•rən/,noun,"experienced through long service or
practice", english words ngsl 2672,reflection,/rɪ•flɛk•ʃən/,noun,"image
that you see in a mirror, glass, or water", english words ngsl
2673,nerve,/nɚv/,noun,"long thin cells in the body that makes feeling
and movement possible", english words ngsl
2674,determination,/dɪ•tɚ•mɪ•nɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"will to achieve a goal
despite difficulties", english words ngsl
2675,altogether,/oɚl•tə•gɛ•ðə/,adv,"completely and fully", english words
ngsl 2676,fiction,/fɪk•ʃən/,noun,"book or story including ideas, people,
and events that are not real", english words ngsl
2677,carpet,/kɑɚ•pɪt/,noun,"colored floor covering made of wool or other
material", english words ngsl 2678,cluster,/klʌs•tə/,verb,"to come
together to form a group of people, animals, or things", english words
ngsl 2679,confusion,/kən•fju•ʒən/,noun,"not knowing what to do", english
words ngsl 2680,hurry,/hʌ•rɪ/,verb,"to move quickly", english words ngsl
2681,logic,/lɑ•dʒɪk/,noun,"a way of thinking by using facts and
reasoning", english words ngsl
2682,controversial,/kɑn•trə•vɚ•ʃəl/,adj,"causing a great deal of
argument, discussion, or conflict", english words ngsl
2683,raw,/roɚ/,adj,"uncooked", english words ngsl
2684,grammar,/græ•mə/,noun,"rules that explain how words are used in a
language", english words ngsl 2685,revise,/rɪ•vaɪz/,verb,"to make
changes to improve something", english words ngsl
2686,hint,/hɪnt/,noun,"information that helps you understand or do
something more easily", english words ngsl 2687,hook,/hʊk/,noun,"curved
or bent tool", english words ngsl 2688,bell,/bɛl/,noun,"a hollow metal
object shaped like a cup that rings when it is hit", english words ngsl
2689,liquid,/lɪ•kwɪd/,noun,"basic state of things that is similar to
water; not solid or gas", english words ngsl
2690,panic,/pæ•nɪk/,noun,"overwhelming feeling of fear and anxiety",
english words ngsl 2691,uncle,/ʌŋ•kl/,noun,"brother of your father or
mother or the husband of your aunt", english words ngsl
2692,rice,/raɪs/,noun,"white or brown grains from a plant used for
food", english words ngsl 2693,slope,/sloʊp/,noun,"an area of land that
is higher on one side than the other", english words ngsl
2694,happiness,/hæpɪnəs/,noun,"state of feeling pleased; feeling of
satisfaction", english words ngsl 2695,genuine,/dʒɛ•njʊ•ɪn/,adj,"being
real, actual, and not false", english words ngsl
2696,vessel,/vɛ•sl/,noun,"pot, container", english words ngsl
2697,verb,/vɚb/,noun,"word that expresses an action or state", english
words ngsl 2698,reckon,/rɛ•kən/,verb,"to believe that something is true
or possible; to calculate or guess", english words ngsl
2699,silly,/sɪ•lɪ/,adv,"lacking seriousness or foolish", english words
ngsl 2700,transportation,/trænspoɚ'tɛɪʃn/,noun,"act, system, or business
of moving people or goods from one place to another", english words ngsl
2701,harbor,/hɑɚ•bɚ/,noun,"area of water protected by land and used by
ships", english words ngsl 2702,comedy,/kɑ•mɪ•dɪ/,noun,"light or funny
play or film, usually with a happy ending", english words ngsl
2703,chase,/tʃɛɪs/,verb,"to follow and try to catch someone or
something", english words ngsl 2704,storage,/stoɚ•rɪdʒ/,noun,"a safe
place to keep something until it is needed", english words ngsl
2705,universe,/ju•nɪ•vɚs/,noun,"all of space and everything in it",
english words ngsl 2706,horrible,/hɑ•rə•bl/,adj,"very unpleasant",
english words ngsl 2707,sheep,/ʃiːp/,noun,"farm animal kept for meat and
wool", english words ngsl 2708,lover,/lʌ•və/,noun,"a person who likes
someone or something very strongly", english words ngsl
2709,rat,/ræt/,noun,"an animal that looks like a large mouse", english
words ngsl 2710,portrait,/poɚ•trɪt/,noun,"painting, drawing, or
photograph of a person's head and shoulders", english words ngsl
2711,innocent,/ɪ•nə•snt/,adj,"not having done anything wrong or bad",
english words ngsl 2712,substitute,/sʌb•stɪ•tjut/,noun,"person or thing
that takes the place of something", english words ngsl
2713,supplement,/sʌp•lɪ•mɛnt/,noun,"something added to another thing to
make it better", english words ngsl
2714,adjustment,/ə•dʒʌs•tmənt/,noun,"a small change to make something
function better", english words ngsl 2715,reasonably,/riːznəblɪ/,adv,"in
a fair and just manner", english words ngsl
2716,filter,/fɪl•t/,noun,"device to remove unwanted substances from a
liquid or gas", english words ngsl
2717,flexible,/flɛk•sə•bl/,adj,"capable of being easily bent or changed
without breaking", english words ngsl
2718,abstract,/æb•strækt/,adj,"concerning something that doesn't exist
physically", english words ngsl 2719,tent,/tɛnt/,noun,"portable cloth
shelter used outdoors", english words ngsl
2720,precise,/prɪ•saɪs/,adj,"very accurate and exact expression or
detail", english words ngsl 2721,distant,/dɪs•tənt/,adj,"existing or
happening far away in space", english words ngsl
2722,stranger,/strɛɪn•dʒə/,noun,"someone you do not know", english words
ngsl 2723,shade,/ʃɛɪd/,noun,"area of darkness where something stops the
light", english words ngsl 2724,grain,/grɛɪn/,noun,"seeds of plants used
for food", english words ngsl 2725,situate,/sɪ•tjʊ•ɛɪt/,verb,"to place
someone or something in a particular place or position", english words
ngsl 2726,summarize,/sʌ•mə•raɪz/,verb,"to state the main or most
important ideas of something", english words ngsl
2727,leap,/liːp/,verb,"to move forwards often in big steps", english
words ngsl 2728,snap,/snæp/,verb,"to break something long and thin",
english words ngsl 2729,probability,/prɑ•bə•bɪ•lɪ•tɪ/,noun,"what the
chances are that something will happen", english words ngsl
2730,leather,/lɛ•ðə/,noun,"a material made from the skin of an animal",
english words ngsl 2731,uncertainty,/ʌn•sɚ•tn•tɪ/,noun,"feeling that you
don't really know what will happen", english words ngsl
2732,swear,/swɛɚ/,verb,"to make a serious promise to do something",
english words ngsl 2733,refugee,/rɛ•fju•dʒiː/,noun,"a person who ran
away from his or her country because of war", english words ngsl
2734,shore,/ʃoɚ/,noun,"land along the edge of an area of water", english
words ngsl 2735,monthly,/mʌn•θlɪ/,adv,"occurring twelve times a year",
english words ngsl 2736,comprise,/kəm•praɪz/,verb,"to make up or form
something", english words ngsl 2737,stir,/stɚ/,verb,"to mix something by
making circular movements in it with a tool", english words ngsl
2738,excitement,/ɪk•saɪt•mənt/,noun,"when people feel very happy and
enthusiastic", english words ngsl 2739,sigh,/saɪ/,verb,"to breathe out
in a way to show boredom or disappointment", english words ngsl
2740,pregnancy,/prɛg•nən•sɪ/,noun,"time when a female is going to have a
baby", english words ngsl
2741,experimental,/ɛks•pɛ•rɪ•mɛn•tl/,adj,"using techniques that are
different or untried before", english words ngsl
2742,institutional,/ɪn•stɪ•tju•ʃə•nL/,adj,"concerning a large
organization such as a hospital or university", english words ngsl
2743,slice,/slaɪs/,noun,"a flat piece of food that has been cut from a
bigger piece", english words ngsl 2744,wander,/wɑn•də/,verb,"to move
around without purpose", english words ngsl
2745,empire,/ɛm•paɪ•ə/,noun,"group of countries controlled by one
government", english words ngsl
2746,subsequently,/sʌbsɪkwəntlɪ/,adv,"after something else has
happened", english words ngsl 2747,gentle,/dʒɛn•tl/,adj,"kind and quiet
in nature; not harsh or violent", english words ngsl
2748,attendance,/ə•tɛn•dəns/,noun,"state of being present at a place or
event", english words ngsl 2749,ownership,/oʊ•nə•ʃɪp/,noun,"legal right
to have something belong to you", english words ngsl
2750,qualification,/kwɑ•lɪ•fɪ•kɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"official record proving a
certain standard or level", english words ngsl
2751,suspend,/səs•pɛnd/,verb,"to stop something for a period of time; to
interrupt", english words ngsl 2752,functional,/fʌŋ•kʃə•nL/,adj,"useful;
not just for decoration", english words ngsl
2753,voluntary,/vɑ•lən•tə•rɪ/,adj,"done or given by their own will and
not forced to do", english words ngsl 2754,pale,/pɛɪl/,adj,"light in
color", english words ngsl 2755,stain,/stɛɪn/,verb,"to mark or change
the color of something so it looks dirty", english words ngsl
2756,athlete,/æθ•liːt/,noun,"person trained to compete in sports",
english words ngsl 2757,organic,/oɚ•gæ•nɪk/,adj,"concerning food made
with few or no chemicals", english words ngsl
2758,tongue,/tʌŋ/,noun,"part of the mouth that tastes food and is used
for speaking", english words ngsl 2759,server,/sɚ•və/,noun,"a person or
thing that brings things to you when asked to", english words ngsl
2760,structural,/strʌk•tʃə•rəl/,adj,"related to the way something is
built or organized", english words ngsl 2761,fool,/ful/,noun,"a stupid
or silly person", english words ngsl
2762,alongside,/ə•lɑŋ•saɪd/,prep,"side by side with something", english
words ngsl 2763,unite,/ju•naɪt/,verb,"to join or come together as one",
english words ngsl 2764,gently,/dʒɛntlɪ/,adv,"in a mild, careful, and
soft manner", english words ngsl 2765,compute,/kəm•pjut/,verb,"to find
out by calculating or estimating", english words ngsl
2766,wipe,/waɪp/,verb,"to clean or dry something with a cloth", english
words ngsl 2767,weird,/wiːɚd/,adj,"odd or unusual", english words ngsl
2768,gaze,/gɛɪz/,noun,"a long continuous look at someone or something",
english words ngsl 2769,fade,/fɛɪd/,verb,"to lose strength or
freshness", english words ngsl 2770,cough,/kɑf/,verb,"to force air
through your throat with a short, loud noise", english words ngsl
2771,hypothesis,/haɪ•pɑ•θɪ•sɪs/,noun,"idea that leads to further study
or discussion", english words ngsl 2772,royal,/roɪəl/,adj,"concerning a
king or queen", english words ngsl
2773,theoretical,/θiːɚ•rɛ•tɪ•kəl/,adj,"involving the uncertain or yet to
be proved parts of a particular subject", english words ngsl
2774,curtain,/kɚ•tn/,noun,"piece of cloth used to cover a window",
english words ngsl 2775,mayor,/mɛɚ2/,noun,"head of a city's government",
english words ngsl 2776,darkness,/dɑɚknəs/,noun,"quality of no or little
light", english words ngsl 2777,aunt,/ɑɚnt/,noun,"sister of your father
or mother or the wife of your uncle", english words ngsl
2778,tournament,/tʊə•nə•mənt/,noun,"a competition made up of a series of
games between many competitors", english words ngsl
2779,registration,/rɛ•dʒɪs•trɛɪ•ʃən/,noun,"act of recording information
on an official list", english words ngsl
2780,fragment,/fræg•mənt/,noun,"part that is broken off of something",
english words ngsl 2781,listener,/lɪ•sŋ•ə/,noun,"someone who pays
attention to what is said", english words ngsl
2782,tender,/tɛn•də/,adj,"loving and gentle", english words ngsl
2783,density,/dɛnsɪtɪ/,noun,"number of people or things in a particular
area", english words ngsl 2784,ugly,/ʌg•lɪ/,adj,"unpleasant to look at;
not attractive", english words ngsl 2785,module,/mɑdjul/,noun,"part or
unit with a specific job", english words ngsl
2786,faithfully,/fɛɪθfəlɪ/,adv,"in a trustworthy manner", english words
ngsl 2787,autumn,/oɚ•təm/,noun,"season when the weather is getting
colder, between summer and winter", english words ngsl
2788,cheek,/tʃiːk/,noun,"soft skin on each side of the face, below the
eyes", english words ngsl 2789,attachment,/ə•tætʃ•mənt/,noun,"strong
affection for someone", english words ngsl
2790,holder,/hoʊl•də/,noun,"person who owns or has received something",
english words ngsl 2791,grin,/grɪn/,verb,"to smile a big smile", english
words ngsl 2792,noun,/naʊn/,noun,"a word that refers to a person, place,
thing, quality, idea, or action", english words ngsl
2793,fortunate,/foɚtʃ•nɪt/,adj,"having good luck", english words ngsl
2794,alright,/oɚl•raɪt/,adv,"good; acceptable", english words ngsl
2795,lazy,/lɛɪ•zɪ/,adj,"not liking to work or make an effort", english
words ngsl 2796,hello,/hɛ•loʊ/,intj,"what you say when you meet
someone", english words ngsl 2797,hunger,/hʌŋ•gə/,noun,"feeling of
needing to eat food", english words ngsl 2798,insure,/ɪn•ʃʊə/,verb,"to
buy protection against possible loss or injury", english words ngsl
2799,ashamed,/ə•ʃɛɪmd/,adj,"feeling shame or guilt because you did
something wrong", english words ngsl 2800,found,/faʊnd/,verb,"to start
something such as a company or organization", english words ngsl
2801,thirst,/θɚst/,noun,"need for something to drink", english words
ngsl

# Not Added

# Added

|              |     |                                                                                                     |                                 |                    |                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |               |
|--------------|-----|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| the          | 1   | the:1                                                                                               | definite article                | the                | / t͟hə, t͟hē, t͟hə; ˈt͟hē/                                    | used as a function word to indicate that a following noun or noun equivalent is definite or has been previously specified by context or by circumstance.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Old English thē, masculine demonstrative pron. & definite article, alteration (influenced by oblique cases — as thæs, genitive — & neuter, thæt) of sē; akin to Greek ho, masculine demonstrative pron. & definite article that                           | english words |
| of           | 2   | of:1                                                                                                | preposition                     | of                 | *əv, ə; ˈəv, ˈäv*                                         | used as a function word to indicate a point of reckoning.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English, off, of, from Old English, adverb & preposition; akin to Old High German aba off, away, Latin ab from, away, Greek apo                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| and          | 3   | and:1                                                                                               | conjunction                     | and                | *ən(d), (ˈ)an(d), ᵊn(d) t, d, s z, ᵊm p b, ᵊŋ k g*        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old High German unti and                                                                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| to           | 4   | to:1                                                                                                | preposition                     | to                 | *tə, tu̇, ˈtü*                                             | used as a function word to indicate movement or an action or condition suggestive of movement toward a place, person, or thing reached.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Old English tō; akin to Old High German zuo to, Latin donec as long as, until                                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| a            | 5   | a:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | a                  | *ˈā*                                                      | the 1st letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Old English ān one one                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | english words |
| in           | 6   | in:1                                                                                                | preposition                     | in                 | *ˈin, ən, ᵊn*                                             | used as a function word to indicate inclusion, location, or position within limits.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old High German in in, Latin in, Greek en                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| for          | 7   | for:1                                                                                               | preposition                     | for                | *fər, (ˈ)fȯr, (ˈ)fär*                                     | used as a function word to indicate purpose.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Old English; akin to Latin per through, prae before, pro before, for, ahead, Greek pro, Old English faran to go fare                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| is           | 8   | is:1                                                                                                | verb                            |                    | *ɪz*                                                      | third-person singular simple present indicative form of by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old High German ist is (from sīn to be), Latin est (from esse to be), Greek esti (from einai to be)                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| on           | 9   | on:1                                                                                                | preposition                     | on                 | *ˈȯn, ˈän*                                                | used as a function word to indicate position in contact with and supported by the top surface of.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English an, on, preposition & adverb, from Old English; akin to Old High German ana on, Greek ana up, on                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| that         | 10  | that:1                                                                                              | pronoun                         |                    | *ˈt͟hat, t͟hət*                                             | the person, thing, or idea indicated, mentioned, or understood from the situation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English, from Old English thæt, neuter demonstrative pron. & definite article; akin to Old High German daz, neuter demonstrative pron. & definite article, Greek to, Latin istud, neuter demonstrative pron.                                                            | english words |
| by           | 11  | by:1                                                                                                | preposition                     | by                 | *ˈbī, bə*                                                 | in proximity to :near.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, preposition & adverb, from Old English, preposition, be, bī; akin to Old High German bī by, near, Latin ambi- on both sides, around, Greek amphi                                                                                                               | english words |
| this         | 12  | this:1                                                                                              | pronoun                         |                    | *ˈt͟his, t͟həs*                                             | the person, thing, or idea that is present or near in place, time, or thought or that has just been mentioned.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, pron. & adjective, from Old English thes (masculine), this (neuter); akin to Old High German dese this, Old English thæt that                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| with         | 13  | with:1                                                                                              | preposition                     | with               | *ˈwit͟h, ˈwith, wət͟h, wəth*                                | in opposition to :against.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English, against, from, with, from Old English; akin to Old English wither against, Old High German widar against, back, Sanskrit vi apart                                                                                                                              | english words |
| i            | 14  | i:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | i                  | *ˈī*                                                      | the 9th letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Old English ic; akin to Old High German ih I, Latin ego, Greek egō                                                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| you          | 15  | you:1                                                                                               | pronoun                         | you                | *ˈyü, yə yē*                                              | the one or ones being addressedcompare thee thou ye your yours.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Old English ēow, dative & accusative of gē you; akin to Old High German iu, dative of ir you, Sanskrit yūyam you                                                                                                                                          | english words |
| it           | 16  | it:1                                                                                                | pronoun                         | it                 | *ˈit, ət*                                                 | that one used as subject or direct object or indirect object of a verb or object of a preposition usually in reference to a lifeless thing, a plant, a person or animal whose sex is unknown or disregarded, a group of individuals or things, or an abstract entitycompare he its she they.                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Old English hit he                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| not          | 17  | not:1                                                                                               | adverb                          | not                | *ˈnät*                                                    | used as a function word to make negative a group of words or a word.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, alteration of nought, from nought, pron. naught                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| or           | 18  | or:1                                                                                                | conjunction                     | or                 | *ər, ˈȯr, ˈär*                                            | used as a function word to indicate an alternative, the equivalent or substitutive character of two words or phrases, or approximation or uncertainty.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, alteration of other, alteration of Old English oththe; akin to Old High German eddo or                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| be           | 19  | be:1                                                                                                | verb                            |                    | *ˈbē*                                                     | to equal in meaning :have the same connotation as :symbolize.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English, from Old English bēon; akin to Old High German bim am, Latin fui I have been, futurus about to be, fieri to become, be done, Greek phynai to be born, be by nature, phyein to produce                                                                          | english words |
| are          | 20  | are:1                                                                                               | verb                            |                    | *ɑɹ*                                                      | second-person singular simple present of be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Old English earun; akin to Old Norse eru, erum are, Old English is is                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| from         | 21  | from:1                                                                                              | preposition                     | from               | *ˈfrəm, ˈfräm fəm*                                        | used as a function word to indicate a starting point of a physical movement or a starting point in measuring or reckoning or in a statement of limits.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, from Old English from, fram; akin to Old High German fram, adverb, forth, away, Old English faran to go fare                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| at           | 22  | at:1                                                                                                | preposition                     | at                 | *ət, ˈat*                                                 | used as a function word to indicate presence or occurrence in, on, or near.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Old English æt; akin to Old High German az at, Latin ad                                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| as           | 23  | as:1                                                                                                | adverb                          | as                 | *əz, (ˌ)az*                                               | to the same degree or amount.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English, from Old English eallswā likewise, just as also                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| your         | 24  | your:1                                                                                              | adjective                       | your               | *yər, ˈyu̇r, ˈyȯr*                                         | of or relating to you or yourself or yourselves especially as possessor or possessors, agent or agents, or object or objects of an action.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English, from Old English ēower; akin to Old English ēow you you                                                                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| all          | 25  | all:1                                                                                               | adjective                       |                    | *ˈȯl*                                                     | the whole amount, quantity, or extent of.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English all, al, from Old English eall; akin to Old High German all all                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| have         | 26  | have:1                                                                                              | verb                            |                    | *ˈhav, (h)əv, v; ˈhaf*                                    | to hold or maintain as a possession, privilege, or entitlement.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Old English habban; akin to Old High German habēn to have, and perhaps to hevan to lift heave                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| new          | 27  | new:1                                                                                               | adjective                       |                    | *ˈnü, ˈnyü, (ˌ)nu̇ nə (ˌ)ni*                               | having recently come into existence :recent modern.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Old English nīwe; akin to Old High German niuwi new, Latin novus, Greek neos                                                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| more         | 28  | more:1                                                                                              | adjective                       | more               | *ˈmȯr*                                                    | greater.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Old English māra; akin to Old English mā, adverb, more, Old High German mēr, Old Irish mó more                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| an           | 29  | an:1                                                                                                | indefinite article              | an                 | *ən, (ˈ)an*                                               | a\.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Old English ān one one                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | english words |
| was          | 30  | was:1                                                                                               | verb                            | was                | *wʌz*, *wɑz*                                              | first-person singular simple past indicative of be.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Old English, wæs, 1st & 3d singular past indicative of wesan to be; akin to Old Norse vera to be, var was, Sanskrit vasati he lives, dwells                                                                                                               | english words |
| we           | 31  | we:1                                                                                                | pronoun                         | we                 | *ˈwē*                                                     | I and the rest of a group that includes me :you and I :you and I and another or others :I and another or others not including youcompare i our ours us.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Old English wē; akin to Old High German wir we, Sanskrit vayam                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| will         | 32  | will:1                                                                                              | verb                            |                    | *wəl, (ə)l, ᵊl, ˈwil*                                     | desire, wish.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English (1st & 3d singular present indicative), from Old English wille (infinitive wyllan); akin to Old High German wili (3d singular present indicative) wills, Latin velle to wish, will                                                                              | english words |
| home         | 33  | home:1                                                                                              | noun                            |                    | *ˈhōm*                                                    | one's place of residence :domicile.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English hom, from Old English hām village, home; akin to Old High German heim home, Lithuanian šeima family, servants, Sanskrit kṣema habitable, kṣeti he dwells, Greek ktizein to inhabit                                                                              | english words |
| can          | 34  | can:1                                                                                               | verb                            |                    | *kən, ˈkan ˈken; ˈkin*                                    | know, understand.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English (1st & 3d singular present indicative), from Old English; akin to Old High German kan (1st & 3d singular present indicative) know, am able, Old English cnāwan to know know                                                                                     | english words |
| us           | 35  | us:Origin                                                                                           | pronoun                         | us                 | *ˈəs*                                                     | Origin.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Old English ūs; akin to Old High German uns us, Latin nos                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| about        | 36  | <about:1>                                                                                           | adverb                          | about              | *ə-ˈbau̇t*                                                 | reasonably close to.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Old English abūtan, from a- + būtan outside but                                                                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| if           | 37  | if:1                                                                                                | conjunction                     | if                 | *ˈif, əf*                                                 | in the event that.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English, from Old English gif; akin to Old High German ibu if                                                                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| page         | 38  | page:1                                                                                              | noun                            | page               | *ˈpāj*                                                    | a youth being trained for the medieval rank of knight and in the personal service of a knight.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Anglo-French                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| my           | 39  | my:1                                                                                                | adjective                       | my                 | *ˈmī, mə*                                                 | of or relating to me or myself especially as possessor, agent, object of an action, or familiar person.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Old English mīn, from mīn, suppletive genitive of ic I; akin to Old English mē me                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| has          | 40  | has:1                                                                                               | verb                            | has                | *hæz*                                                     | third-person singular simple present indicatize form of have                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| search       | 41  | search:1                                                                                            | verb                            | search             | *ˈsərch*                                                  | to look into or over carefully or thoroughly in an effort to find or discover something: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English cerchen, from Anglo-French cercher, sercher to travel about, investigate, search, from Late Latin circare to go about, from Latin circum round about circum-                                                                                                    | english words |
| free         | 42  | free:1                                                                                              | adjective                       |                    | *ˈfrē*                                                    | having the legal and political rights of a citizen.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Old English frēo; akin to Old High German frī free, Welsh rhydd, Sanskrit priya own, dear                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| but          | 43  | but:1                                                                                               | conjunction                     | but                | *ˈbət*                                                    | except for the fact.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Old English būtan, preposition & conjunction, outside, without, except, except that; akin to Old High German būzan without, except; akin to Old English be by, ūt out by, out                                                                             | english words |
| our          | 44  | our:1                                                                                               | adjective                       | our                | *är, ˈau̇(-ə)r*                                            | of or relating to us or ourselves or ourself especially as possessors or possessor, agents or agent, or objects or object of an action.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English oure, from Old English ūre; akin to Old High German unsēr our, Old English ūs us                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| one          | 45  | one:1                                                                                               | adjective                       |                    | *ˈwən*                                                    | being a single unit or thing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English on, an, from Old English ān; akin to Old High German ein one, Latin unus (Old Latin oinos), Sanskrit eka                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| other        | 46  | other:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | oth\*er            | *ˈə-t͟hər*                                                 | being the one (as of two or more) remaining or not included.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Old English ōther; akin to Old High German andar other, Sanskrit antara                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| do           | 47  | do:1                                                                                                | verb                            |                    | *ˈdü*                                                     | to bring to pass :carry out.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English don, from Old English dōn; akin to Old High German tuon to do, Latin -dere to put, facere to make, do, Greek tithenai to place, set                                                                                                                             | english words |
| no           | 48  | no:1                                                                                                | adverb                          | no                 | *ˈnō*                                                     | not                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Old English nā, from ne not + ā always; akin to Old Norse & Old High German ne not, Latin ne-, Greek nē- aye                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| information  | 49  | information:1                                                                                       | noun                            | in\*for\*ma\*tion  | *ˌin-fər-ˈmā-shən*                                        | the communication or reception of knowledge or intelligence.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| time         | 50  | time:1                                                                                              | noun                            | time               | *ˈtīm*                                                    | the measured or measurable period during which an action, process, or condition exists or continues :duration.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Old English tīma; akin to Old Norse tīmi time, Old English tīd tide                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| they         | 51  | they:1                                                                                              | pronoun, plural in construction |                    | *ˈt͟hā*                                                    | those ones used as third person pronoun serving as the plural of he, she, or it or referring to a group of two or more individuals not all of the same sex.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Old Norse their, masculine plural demonstrative & personal pron.; akin to Old English thæt that                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| site         | 52  | site:1                                                                                              | noun                            | site               | *ˈsīt*                                                    | the spatial location of an actual or planned structure or set of structures (as a building, town, or monuments).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Middle English, place, position, from Anglo-French or Latin; Anglo-French sit, site, from Latin situs, from sinere to leave, allow                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| he           | 53  | he:1                                                                                                | pronoun                         | he                 | *ˈhē, ē*                                                  | that male one who is neither speaker nor hearercompare him his it she they.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Old English hē; akin to Old English hēo she, hit it, Old High German hē he, Latin cis, citra on this side, Greek ekeinos that person                                                                                                                      | english words |
| up           | 54  | up:1                                                                                                | adverb                          | up                 | *ˈəp*                                                     | in or into a higher position or level; especially away from the center of the earth.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | partly from Middle English up upward, from Old English ūp; partly from Middle English uppe on high, from Old English; both akin to Old High German ūf up and probably to Latin sub under, Greek hypo under, hyper over over                                                    | english words |
| may          | 55  | May:1                                                                                               | noun                            |                    | *ˈmā*                                                     | the fifth month of the Gregorian calendar.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English, from Anglo-French & Latin; Anglo-French mai, from Latin Maius, from Maia, Roman goddess                                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| what         | 56  | what:1                                                                                              | pronoun                         | what               | *ˈhwät, ˈhwət, ˈwät, ˈwət*                                | used as an interrogative expressing inquiry about the identity, nature, or value of an object or matter.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Old English hwæt, neuter of hwā who who                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| which        | 57  | which:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | which              | *ˈhwich, ˈwich*                                           | being what one or ones out of a group.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, of what kind, which, from Old English hwilc; akin to Old High German wilīh of what kind, which, Old English hwā who, gelīk like who, like                                                                                                                      | english words |
| their        | 58  | their:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | their              | *t͟hər, ˈt͟her*                                             | of or relating to them or themselves especially as possessors, agents, or objects of an action.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from their, pron., from Old Norse theirra, genitive plural demonstrative & personal pron.; akin to Old English thæt that                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| news         | 59  | <news:1>                                                                                            | noun                            | news               | *ˈnüz, ˈnyüz*                                             | a report of recent events.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| out          | 60  | out:1                                                                                               | adverb                          | out                | *ˈau̇t*                                                    | in a direction away from the inside or center.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Old English ūt; akin to Old High German ūz out, Greek hysteros later, Sanskrit ud up, out                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| use          | 61  | use:1                                                                                               | noun                            | use                | *ˈyüs*                                                    | the act or practice of employing something :employment application.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English us, from Anglo-French, from Latin usus, from uti to use                                                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| any          | 62  | any:1                                                                                               | adjective                       | any                | *ˈe-nē*                                                   | one or some indiscriminately of whatever kind:.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Old English ǣnig; akin to Old High German einag any, Old English ān one one                                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| there        | 63  | there:1                                                                                             | adverb                          | there              | *ˈt͟her*                                                   | in or at that place.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Old English thǣr; akin to Old High German dār there, Old English thæt that                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| see          | 64  | see:1                                                                                               | verb                            |                    | *ˈsē*                                                     | to perceive by the eye.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English seen, from Old English sēon; akin to Old High German sehan to see and perhaps to Latin sequi to follow sue                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| only         | 65  | only:1                                                                                              | adjective                       | on\*ly             | *ˈōn-lē*                                                  | unquestionably the best :peerless.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English, from Old English ānlīc, from ān one one                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| so           | 66  | so:1                                                                                                | adverb                          | so                 | *ˈsō, sə*                                                 | in a manner or way indicated or suggested.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English, from Old English swā; akin to Old High German sō so, Latin sic so, thus, si if, Greek hōs so, thus, Latin suus one's own suicide                                                                                                                               | english words |
| his          | 67  | his:1                                                                                               | adjective                       | his                | *(h)iz, ˌhiz*                                             | of or relating to him or himself especially as possessor, agent, or object of an actioncompare he.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English, from Old English, genitive of hē he                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| when         | 68  | when:1                                                                                              | adverb                          | when               | *ˈhwen, ˈwen, (h)wən*                                     | at what time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English, from Old English hwanne, hwenne; akin to Old High German hwanne when, Old English hwā who who                                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| contact      | 69  | contact:1                                                                                           | noun                            | con\*tact          | *ˈkän-ˌtakt*                                              | union or junction of surfaces.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | French or Latin; French, from Latin contactus, from contingere to have contact with contingent                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| here         | 70  | here:1                                                                                              | adverb                          | here               | *ˈhir*                                                    | in or at this place.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Old English hēr; akin to Old High German hier here, Old English hē he                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| business     | 71  | business:1                                                                                          | noun                            | busi\*ness         | *ˈbiz-nəs, -nəz, ˈbid-*                                   | purposeful activity :busyness.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English bisynesse, from bisy busy + -nesse -ness                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| who          | 72  | who:1                                                                                               | pronoun                         | who                | *ˈhü, ü*                                                  | what or which person or persons.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Middle English, from Old English hwā; akin to Old High German hwer, interrog. pron., who, Latin quis, Greek tis, Latin qui, relative pron., who                                                                                                                                | english words |
| web          | 73  | web:1                                                                                               | noun                            | web                | *ˈweb*                                                    | a fabric on a loom or in process of being removed from a loom.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old Norse vefr web, Old English wefan to weave                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| also         | 74  | also:1                                                                                              | adverb                          | al\*so             | *ˈȯl(t)-(ˌ)sō, ˈȯ-*                                       | likewise 1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Old English eallswā, from eall all + swā so so                                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| now          | 75  | now:1                                                                                               | adverb                          | now                | *ˈnau̇*                                                    | at the present time or moment.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Old English nū; akin to Old High German nū now, Latin nunc, Greek nyn                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| help         | 76  | help:1                                                                                              | verb                            | help               | *ˈhelp; ˈhep ˈheəp*                                       | to give assistance or support to.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, from Old English helpan; akin to Old High German helfan to help, and perhaps to Lithuanian šelpti                                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| get          | 77  | get:1                                                                                               | verb                            |                    | *ˈget, ÷ˈgit*                                             | to gain possession of.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, from Old Norse geta to get, beget; akin to Old English bigietan to beget, Latin prehendere to seize, grasp, Greek chandanein to hold, contain                                                                                                                  | english words |
| pm           | 78  | pm:1                                                                                                | abbreviation                    | pm                 |                                                           | phase modulation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| view         | 79  | view:1                                                                                              | noun                            | view               | *ˈvyü*                                                    | extent or range of vision :sight.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English vewe, vyewe, from Anglo-French, from feminine of veu, viewe, past participle of veer to see, from Latin vidēre wit                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| online       | 80  | online:1                                                                                            | adjective                       | on\*line           | *ˈȯn-ˈlīn, ˈän-ˈlīn*                                      | connected to, served by, or available through a system and especially a computer or telecommunications system (as the Internet); also done while connected to such a system.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| c            | 81  | c:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | c                  | *ˈsē*                                                     | the 3d letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| e            | 82  | e:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | e                  | *ˈē*                                                      | the 5th letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| first        | 83  | first:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | first              | *ˈfərst*                                                  | preceding all others in time, order, or importance: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Old English fyrst; akin to Old High German furist first, Old English faran to go fare                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| am           | 84  | am:1                                                                                                | verb                            | am                 | *æm*                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Old English eom; akin to Old Norse em am, Latin sum, Greek eimi                                                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| been         | 85  | been:1                                                                                              | verb                            | been               | *bɪn*                                                     | to equal in meaning : have the same connotation as : symbolize                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| would        | 86  | would:1                                                                                             | verb                            | would              | *wəd, əd, d, ˈwu̇d*                                        | wished, desired.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Middle English wolde, from Old English; akin to Old High German wolta wished, desired                                                                                                                                                                                          | english words |
| how          | 87  | how:1                                                                                               | adverb                          | how                | *ˈhau̇*                                                    | in what manner or way.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, from Old English hū; akin to Old High German hwuo how, Old English hwā who who                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| were         | 88  | were:1                                                                                              | verb                            | were               | *wɝ*                                                      | second-person singular simple past indicative of be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English were, weren, from Old English wǣre, wǣron, wǣren, from Proto-Germanic \*wēz-, from Proto-Indo-European \*h₂wes-. More at was.                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| me           | 89  | me:1                                                                                                | pronoun                         | me                 | *ˈmē*                                                     | first-person singular pronoun, referring to the speaker.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Old English mē; akin to Old High German mīh me, Latin me, Greek me, Sanskrit mā                                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| s            | 90  | s:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | s                  | *ˈes*                                                     | the 19th letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| services     | 91  | <service:1>                                                                                         | noun                            |                    | *ˈsər-vəs*                                                | the occupation or function of serving.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, from Anglo-French servise, from Latin servitium condition of a slave, body of slaves, from servus slave                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| some         | 92  | some:1                                                                                              | adjective                       |                    | /ˈsəm, /                                                  | being an unknown, undetermined, or unspecified unit or thing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English som, adjective & pron., from Old English sum; akin to Old High German sum some, Greek hamē somehow, homos same same                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| these        | 93  | these:1                                                                                             | determiner                      |                    | *ðiz*                                                     | plural of this                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | From Middle English þes, from Old English þas, from Proto-West Germanic \*þes-, a form of Proto-Germanic \*sa (“that”), from Proto-Indo-European \*só. Compare with German diese.                                                                                              | english words |
| click        | 94  | click:1                                                                                             | verb                            | click              | *ˈklik*                                                   | to strike, move, or produce with a click.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | probably imitative                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| its          | 95  | its:1                                                                                               | adjective                       | its                | *ˈits, əts*                                               | of or relating to it or itself especially as possessor, agent, or object of an action.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| like         | 96  | like:1                                                                                              | verb                            | like               | *ˈlīk*                                                    | to be suitable or agreeable to.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Old English līcian; akin to Old English gelīc alike                                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| service      | 97  | <service:1>                                                                                         | noun                            |                    | *ˈsər-vəs*                                                | the occupation or function of serving.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, from Anglo-French servise, from Latin servitium condition of a slave, body of slaves, from servus slave                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| x            | 98  | X:1                                                                                                 | adjective                       | x                  | *ˈeks*                                                    | of such a nature that admission is denied to persons under a specified age (as 17)NC-17.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| than         | 99  | than:1                                                                                              | conjunction                     | than               | *t͟hən, ˈt͟han*                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English than, then then, than then                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| find         | 100 | find:1                                                                                              | verb                            |                    | *ˈfīnd*                                                   | to come upon often accidentally :encounter.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Old English findan; akin to Old High German findan to find, Latin pont-, pons bridge, Greek pontos sea, Sanskrit patha way, course                                                                                                                        | english words |
| forum        | 101 | forum:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈfȯr-əm*                                                 | the marketplace or public place of an ancient Roman city forming the center of judicial and public business.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Latin; akin to Latin foris outside, fores door door                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| family       | 102 | family:1                                                                                            | noun                            | fam\*i\*ly         | *ˈfam-lē, ˈfa-mə-*                                        | a group of individuals living under one roof and usually under one head :household.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English familie, from Latin familia household (including servants as well as kin of the householder), from famulus servant                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| l            | 103 | l:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | l                  | *ˈel*                                                     | the 12th letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| long         | 104 | long:1                                                                                              | adjective                       | long               | *ˈlȯŋ*                                                    | extending for a considerable distance.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English long, lang, from Old English; akin to Old High German lang long, Latin longus                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| based        | 105 | base:1                                                                                              | noun                            |                    | *ˈbās*                                                    | the lower part of a wall, pier, or column considered as a separate architectural feature.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin basis, from Greek, step, base, from bainein to go come                                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| w            | 106 | w:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | w                  | *ˈdə-bəl-(ˌ)yü, ˈdə-bə-; ˈdəb-(ˌ)yü, -yə; ˈdəb-yē*        | the 23d letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | German Wolfram                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| code         | 107 | code:1                                                                                              | noun                            | code               | *ˈkōd*                                                    | a systematic statement of a body of law; especially one given statutory force.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Middle French, from Latin caudex, codex trunk of a tree, document formed originally from wooden tablets                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| show         | 108 | show:1                                                                                              | verb                            |                    | *ˈshō*                                                    | to cause or permit to be seen :exhibit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English shewen, showen, from Old English scēawian to look, look at, see; akin to Old High German scouwōn to look, look at, and probably to Latin cavēre to be on one's guard                                                                                            | english words |
| o            | 109 | o:1                                                                                                 | noun                            |                    | *ˈō*                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| even         | 110 | even:1                                                                                              | noun                            | even               | *ˈē-vən*                                                  | evening.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English even, eve, from Old English ǣfen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| black        | 111 | black:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | black              | *ˈblak*                                                   | of the color black.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English blak, from Old English blæc; akin to Old High German blah black, and probably to Latin flagrare to burn, Greek phlegein                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| check        | 112 | check:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈchek*                                                   | exposure of a chess king to an attack from which he must be protected or moved to safety.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English chek, from Anglo-French eschec, from Arabic shāh, from Persian, literally, king; akin to Greek ktasthai to acquire, Sanskrit kṣatra dominion                                                                                                                    | english words |
| special      | 113 | special:1                                                                                           | adjective                       | spe\*cial          | *ˈspe-shəl*                                               | distinguished by some unusual quality; especially being in some way superior.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English, from Anglo-French or Latin; Anglo-French especial, from Latin specialis individual, particular, from species species                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| prices       | 114 | price:1                                                                                             | noun                            | price              | *ˈprīs*                                                   | value, worth.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English pris, from Anglo-French, from Latin pretium price, money; probably akin to Sanskrit prati- against, in return pros-                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| website      | 115 | Web site:1                                                                                          | noun                            | web\*site          |                                                           | a group of World Wide Web pages usually containing hyperlinks to each other and made available online by an individual, company, educational institution, government, or organization.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| index        | 116 | index:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈin-ˌdeks*                                               | a device (as the pointer on a scale or the gnomon of a sundial) that serves to indicate a value or quantity.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Latin indic-, index, from indicare to indicate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| being        | 117 | being:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈbē(-i)ŋ*                                                | the quality or state of having existence.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | present participle of be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| women        | 118 | woman:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈwu̇-mən, ˈwō- ˈwə-*                                      | an adult female person.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Old English wīfman, from wīf woman, wife + man human being, man                                                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| much         | 119 | much:1                                                                                              | adjective                       | much               | *ˈməch*                                                   | great in quantity, amount, extent, or degree.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English muche large, much, from michel, muchel, from Old English micel, mycel; akin to Old High German mihhil great, large, Latin magnus, Greek megas, Sanskrit mahat                                                                                                   | english words |
| sign         | 120 | sign:1                                                                                              | noun                            | sign               | *ˈsīn*                                                    | a motion or gesture by which a thought is expressed or a command or wish made known.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English signe, from Anglo-French, from Latin signum mark, token, sign, image, seal; perhaps akin to Latin secare to cut saw                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| file         | 121 | <file:1>                                                                                            | noun                            | file               | *ˈfī(-ə)l*                                                | a tool usually of hardened steel with cutting ridges for forming or smoothing surfaces especially of metal.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Old English fēol; akin to Old High German fīla file                                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| link         | 122 | link:1                                                                                              | noun                            | link               | *ˈliŋk*                                                   | a connecting structure: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, of Scandinavian origin; akin to Old Norse hlekkr chain; akin to Old English hlanc lank                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| open         | 123 | open:1                                                                                              | adjective                       | open               | *ˈō-pən, -pᵊm*                                            | having no enclosing or confining barrier :accessible on all or nearly all sides.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old High German offan open, Old English ūp up                                                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| today        | 124 | today:1                                                                                             | adverb                          | to\*day            | *tə-ˈdā*                                                  | on or for this day.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| technology   | 125 | technology:1                                                                                        | noun                            | tech\*nol\*o\*gy   | *tek-ˈnä-lə-jē*                                           | the practical application of knowledge especially in a particular area :engineering 2.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Greek technologia systematic treatment of an art, from technē art, skill + -o- + -logia -logy                                                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| south        | 126 | south:1                                                                                             | adverb                          | south              | *ˈsau̇th*                                                  | to, toward, or in the south.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Old English sūth; akin to Old High German sund- south and probably to Old English sunne sun                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| case         | 127 | case:1                                                                                              | noun                            | case               | *ˈkās*                                                    | a set of circumstances or conditions.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English cas, from Anglo-French, from Latin casus fall, chance, from cadere to fall chance                                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| project      | 128 | project:1                                                                                           | noun                            | proj\*ect          | *ˈprä-ˌjekt, -jikt ˈprō-*                                 | a specific plan or design :scheme.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English projecte, from Medieval Latin projectum, from Latin, neuter of projectus, past participle of proicere to throw forward, from pro- + jacere to throw jet                                                                                                         | english words |
| same         | 129 | same:1                                                                                              | adjective                       | same               | *ˈsām*                                                    | resembling in every relevant respect.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Old Norse samr; akin to Old High German sama same, Latin simulis like, simul together, at the same time, similis like, sem- one, Greek homos same, hama together, hen-, heis one                                                                          | english words |
| pages        | 130 | page:1                                                                                              | noun                            | page               | *ˈpāj*                                                    | a youth being trained for the medieval rank of knight and in the personal service of a knight.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Anglo-French                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| uk           | 131 | UK:1                                                                                                | abbreviation                    |                    |                                                           | United Kingdom.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| version      | 132 | version:1                                                                                           | noun                            | ver\*sion          | *ˈvər-zhən, -shən*                                        | a translation from another language; especially a translation of the Bible or a part of it.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle French, from Medieval Latin version-, versio act of turning, change, from Latin vertere to turn worth                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| section      | 133 | section:1                                                                                           | noun                            | sec\*tion          | *ˈsek-shən*                                               | the action or an instance of cutting or separating by cutting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Latin section-, sectio, from secare to cut saw                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| own          | 134 | own:1                                                                                               | adjective                       | own                | *ˈōn*                                                     | belonging to oneself or itself.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English owen, from Old English āgen; akin to Old High German eigan own, Old Norse eiginn, Old English āgan to possess owe                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| found        | 135 | found:1                                                                                             | adjective                       |                    | *ˈfau̇nd*                                                  | having all usual, standard, or reasonably expected equipment.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English, from Anglo-French funder, fonder, from Latin fundare, from fundus bottom bottom                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| sports       | 136 | sport:1                                                                                             | verb                            | sport              | *ˈspȯrt*                                                  | to amuse oneself :frolic.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English, to divert, disport, short for disporten                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| house        | 137 | house:1                                                                                             | noun                            | house              | *ˈhau̇s*                                                   | a building that serves as living quarters for one or a few families :home.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English hous, from Old English hūs; akin to Old High German hūs house                                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| related      | 138 | related:1                                                                                           | adjective                       | re\*lat\*ed        |                                                           | connected by reason of an established or discoverable relation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| security     | 139 | security:1                                                                                          | noun                            | se\*cu\*ri\*ty     | *si-ˈkyu̇r-ə-tē*                                           | the quality or state of being secure: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| both         | 140 | both:1                                                                                              | pronoun, plural in construction |                    | *ˈbōth*                                                   | the one as well as the other.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English bothe, probably from Old Norse bāthir; akin to Old High German beide both                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| g            | 141 | g:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | g                  | *ˈjē*                                                     | the 7th letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| county       | 142 | county:1                                                                                            | noun                            | coun\*ty           | *ˈkau̇n-tē*                                                | the domain of a count.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English counte, from Anglo-French cunté, counté, from Medieval Latin comitatus, from Late Latin, office of a count, from comit-, comes count count                                                                                                                      | english words |
| american     | 143 | American:1                                                                                          | noun                            | Amer\*i\*can       | *ə-ˈmer-ə-kən, -ˈmər-, -ˈme-rə-*                          | an American Indian of North America or South America.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| photo        | 144 | photo:1                                                                                             | noun                            | pho\*to            | *ˈfō-(ˌ)tō*                                               | photograph.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| game         | 145 | game:1                                                                                              | noun                            | game               | *ˈgām*                                                    | activity engaged in for diversion or amusement :play.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Old English gamen; akin to Old High German gaman amusement                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| members      | 146 | member:1                                                                                            | noun                            |                    | *ˈmem-bər*                                                | a body part or organ: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English membre, from Anglo-French, from Latin membrum; akin to Gothic mimz flesh, Greek mēros thigh                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| power        | 147 | power:1                                                                                             | noun                            | pow\*er            | *ˈpau̇(-ə)r*                                               | ability to act or produce an effect.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Anglo-French poer, pouer, from poer to be able, from Vulgar Latin \*potēre, alteration of Latin posse potent                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| while        | 148 | while:1                                                                                             | noun                            | while              | *ˈhwī(-ə)l, ˈwī(-ə)l*                                     | a period of time especially when short and marked by the occurrence of an action or a condition :time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, from Old English hwīl; akin to Old High German hwīla time, Latin quies rest, quiet                                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| care         | 149 | care:1                                                                                              | noun                            |                    | *ˈker*                                                    | suffering of mind :grief.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English, from Old English caru; akin to Old High German kara lament, Old Irish gairm call, cry, Latin garrire to chatter                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| network      | 150 | network:1                                                                                           | noun                            | net\*work          | *ˈnet-ˌwərk*                                              | a fabric or structure of cords or wires that cross at regular intervals and are knotted or secured at the crossings.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| down         | 151 | down:1                                                                                              | adverb                          | down               | *ˈdau̇n*                                                   | toward or in a lower physical position.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English doun, from Old English dūne, short for adūne, of dūne, from a- (from of), of off, from + dūne, dative of dūn hill                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| computer     | 152 | computer:1                                                                                          | noun                            | com\*put\*er       | *kəm-ˈpyü-tər*                                            | one that computes; specifically a programmable usually electronic device that can store, retrieve, and process data.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| systems      | 153 | system:1                                                                                            | noun                            |                    | *ˈsis-təm*                                                | a regularly interacting or interdependent group of items forming a unified whole: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Late Latin systemat-, systema, from Greek systēmat-, systēma, from synistanai to combine, from syn- + histanai to cause to stand stand                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| three        | 154 | three:1                                                                                             | noun                            | three              | *ˈthrē*                                                   | see number table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, from three, adjective, from Old English thrīe (masculine), thrēo (feminine & neuter); akin to Old High German drī three, Latin tres, Greek treis                                                                                                               | english words |
| total        | 155 | total:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | to\*tal            | *ˈtō-tᵊl*                                                 | comprising or constituting a whole :entire.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Medieval Latin totalis, from Latin totus whole, entire                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| place        | 156 | place:1                                                                                             | noun                            | place              | *ˈplās*                                                   | physical environment :space.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Anglo-French, open space, from Latin platea broad street, from Greek plateia (hodos), from feminine of platys broad, flat; akin to Sanskrit pṛthu broad, Latin planta sole of the foot                                                                    | english words |
| end          | 157 | end:1                                                                                               | noun                            | end                | *ˈend*                                                    | the part of an area that lies at the boundary.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English ende, from Old English; akin to Old High German enti end, Latin ante before, Greek anti against                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| following    | 158 | following:1                                                                                         | adjective                       | fol\*low\*ing      | *ˈfä-lə-wiŋ*                                              | being next in order or time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| download     | 159 | download:1                                                                                          | noun                            | down\*load         | *ˈdau̇n-ˌlōd*                                              | an act or instance of downloading something; also the item downloaded.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| h            | 160 | h:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | h                  | *ˈāch*                                                    | the 8th letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| him          | 161 | him:1                                                                                               | pronoun                         | him                | *im, ˈhim*                                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| without      | 162 | without:1                                                                                           | preposition                     | with\*out          | *wi-ˈt͟hau̇t, -ˈthau̇t*                                      | outside.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English withoute, from Old English withūtan, from with + ūtan outside, from ūt out out                                                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| per          | 163 | per:1                                                                                               | preposition                     | per                | *ˈpər*                                                    | by the means or agency of :through.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Latin, through, by means of, by for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| access       | 164 | access:1                                                                                            | noun                            | ac\*cess           | *ˈak-ˌses ik-ˈses*                                        | onset 2.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Anglo-French & Latin; Anglo-French acces, from Latin accessus approach, from accedere to approach accede                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| think        | 165 | think:1                                                                                             | verb                            |                    | *ˈthiŋk*                                                  | to form or have in the mind.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English thenken, from Old English thencan; akin to Old High German denken to think, Latin tongēre to know thanks                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| north        | 166 | north:1                                                                                             | adverb                          | north              | *ˈnȯrth*                                                  | to, toward, or in the north.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old High German nord north and perhaps to Greek nerteros lower, infernal                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| resources    | 167 | <resource:1>                                                                                        | noun                            |                    | *ˈrē-ˌsȯrs, -ˌzȯrs, ri-ˈ*                                 | a source of supply or support :an available means.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | French ressource, from Old French ressourse relief, resource, from resourdre to relieve, literally, to rise again, from Latin resurgere resurrection                                                                                                                           | english words |
| current      | 168 | current:1                                                                                           | adjective                       |                    | *ˈkər-ənt, ˈkə-rənt*                                      | running, flowing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English curraunt, from Anglo-French corant, present participle of cure, courre to run, from Latin currere car                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| posts        | 169 | post:1                                                                                              | noun                            | post               | *ˈpōst*                                                   | a piece (as of timber or metal) fixed firmly in an upright position especially as a stay or support :pillar column.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Old English, from Latin postis; probably akin to Latin por- forward and to Latin stare to stand portend, stand                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| big          | 170 | big:1                                                                                               | adjective                       | big                | *ˈbig*                                                    | of great strength.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English, perhaps of Scandinavian origin; akin to Norwegian dialect bugge important man                                                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| media        | 171 | media:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈmē-dē-ə*                                                | a voiced stop.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | plural of medium                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| law          | 172 | law:1                                                                                               | noun                            | law                | *ˈlȯ*                                                     | a binding custom or practice of a community :a rule of conduct or action prescribed or formally recognized as binding or enforced by a controlling authority.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English, from Old English lagu, of Scandinavian origin; akin to Old Norse lǫg law; akin to Old English licgan to lie lie                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| control      | 173 | control:1                                                                                           | verb                            | con\*trol          | *kən-ˈtrōl*                                               | to check, test, or verify by evidence or experiments.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English countrollen, from Anglo-French contrerouler, from contreroule copy of an account, audit, from Medieval Latin contrarotulus, from Latin contra- + Medieval Latin rotulus roll roll                                                                               | english words |
| water        | 174 | water:1                                                                                             | noun                            | wa\*ter            | *ˈwȯ-tər, ˈwä-*                                           | the liquid that descends from the clouds as rain, forms streams, lakes, and seas, and is a major constituent of all living matter and that when pure is an odorless, tasteless, very slightly compressible liquid oxide of hydrogen H2O which appears bluish in thick layers, freezes at 0° C and boils at 100° C, has a maximum density at 4° C and a high specific heat, is feebly ionized to hydrogen and hydroxyl ions, and is a poor conductor of electricity and a good solvent. | Middle English, from Old English wæter; akin to Old High German wazzar water, Greek hydōr, Latin unda wave                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| history      | 175 | history:1                                                                                           | noun                            | his\*to\*ry        | *ˈhis-t(ə-)rē*                                            | tale, story.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English histoire, historie, from Anglo-French estoire, histoire, from Latin historia, from Greek, inquiry, history, from histōr, istōr knowing, learned; akin to Greek eidenai to know wit                                                                              | english words |
| pictures     | 176 | picture:1                                                                                           | noun                            | pic\*ture          | *ˈpik-chər*                                               | a design or representation made by various means (as painting, drawing, or photography).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Latin pictura, from pictus, past participle of pingere to paint paint                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| size         | 177 | size:1                                                                                              | noun                            | size               | *ˈsīz*                                                    | assize 2a.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English sise assize, from Anglo-French, short for assise assize                                                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| art          | 178 | art:Middle English, from Old English eart; akin to Old Norse est, ert (thou) art, Old English is is | Origin                          |                    | *ˈärt, ərt*                                               | Middle English, from Old English eart; akin to Old Norse est, ert (thou) art, Old English is is.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Middle English, from Old English eart; akin to Old Norse est, ert (thou) art, Old English is is                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| personal     | 179 | personal:1                                                                                          | adjective                       | per\*son\*al       | *ˈpərs-nəl, ˈpər-sə-nəl*                                  | of, relating to, or affecting a particular person :private individual.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, from Anglo-French personel, from Late Latin personalis, from Latin persona                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| since        | 180 | since:1                                                                                             | adverb                          |                    | *ˈsin(t)s*                                                | from a definite past time until now.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English sins, contraction of sithens, from sithen, from Old English siththan, from sīth tham after that, from sīth after, late + tham, dative of thæt that; akin to Old High German sīd later and perhaps to Latin setius to a lesser degree                            | english words |
| including    | 181 | include:1                                                                                           | verb                            |                    | *in-ˈklüd*                                                | to shut up :enclose.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Latin includere, from in- + claudere to close close                                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| guide        | 182 | guide:1                                                                                             | noun                            | guide              | *ˈgīd*                                                    | one that leads or directs another's way.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English gide, guide, from Anglo-French, from Old Occitan guida, of Germanic origin; akin to Old English wītan to look after, witan to know wit                                                                                                                          | english words |
| shop         | 183 | shop:1                                                                                              | noun                            | shop               | *ˈshäp*                                                   | a handicraft establishment :atelier.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English shoppe, from Old English sceoppa booth; akin to Old High German scopf shed                                                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| directory    | 184 | directory:1                                                                                         | adjective                       | di\*rec\*to\*ry    | *də-ˈrek-t(ə-)rē, dī-*                                    | serving to direct; specifically providing advisory but not compulsory guidance.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English directorie guide, from Medieval Latin directorium, from neuter of Late Latin directorius directorial, from Latin dirigere                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| board        | 185 | board:1                                                                                             | noun                            | board              | *ˈbȯrd*                                                   | border, edge.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English bord piece of sawed lumber, border, ship's side, from Old English; akin to Old High German bort ship's side                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| location     | 186 | location:1                                                                                          | noun                            | lo\*ca\*tion       | *lō-ˈkā-shən*                                             | a position or site occupied or available for occupancy or marked by some distinguishing feature :situation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| change       | 187 | change:1                                                                                            | verb                            | change             | *ˈchānj*                                                  | to make different in some particular :alter.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Anglo-French changer, from Latin cambiare to exchange, probably of Celtic origin; akin to Old Irish camm crooked                                                                                                                                          | english words |
| white        | 188 | white:1                                                                                             | adjective                       |                    | *ˈhwīt, ˈwīt*                                             | free from color.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Middle English, from Old English hwīt; akin to Old High German hwīz white and probably to Old Church Slavic světŭ light, Sanskrit śveta white, bright                                                                                                                          | english words |
| text         | 189 | text:1                                                                                              | noun                            | text               | *ˈtekst*                                                  | the original words and form of a written or printed work.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English, from Anglo-French tiste, texte, from Medieval Latin textus, from Latin, texture, context, from texere to weave technical                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| small        | 190 | small:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | small              | *ˈsmȯl*                                                   | having comparatively little size or slight dimensions.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English smal, from Old English smæl; akin to Old High German smal small, Greek mēlon small domestic animal                                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| rating       | 191 | rating:1                                                                                            | noun                            | rat\*ing           |                                                           | a classification according to grade; specifically a military or naval specialist classification.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| rate         | 192 | rate:1                                                                                              | verb                            | rate               | *ˈrāt*                                                    | to rebuke angrily or violently.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| government   | 193 | government:1                                                                                        | noun                            | gov\*ern\*ment     | *ˈgə-vər(n)-mənt, -və-mənt; ˈgə-bᵊm-ənt, -vᵊm-*           | the act or process of governing; specifically authoritative direction or control.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| children     | 194 | child:1                                                                                             | noun                            | fos\*ter           | *ˈchī(-ə)ld*                                              | an unborn or recently born person.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English, from Old English cild; akin to Gothic kilthei womb, and perhaps to Sanskrit jaṭhara belly                                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| during       | 195 | during:1                                                                                            | preposition                     | dur\*ing           | *ˈdu̇r-iŋ ˈdyu̇r-*                                          | throughout the duration of.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from present participle of duren to last, from Anglo-French durer, from Latin durare to harden, endure, last, from durus hard; perhaps akin to Sanskrit dāru wood tree                                                                                         | english words |
| usa          | 196 | USA:1                                                                                               | abbreviation                    | bell               |                                                           | United States Army.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| return       | 197 | return:1                                                                                            | verb                            | re\*turn           | *ri-ˈtərn*                                                | to go back or come back again.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Anglo-French returner, from re- + turner, tourner to turn turn                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| students     | 198 | student:1                                                                                           | noun                            |                    | *ˈstü-dᵊnt, ˈstyü-, -dənt*                                | scholar, learner; especially one who attends a school.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, from Latin student-, studens, from present participle of studēre to study study                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| v            | 199 | v:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | v                  | *ˈvē*                                                     | the 22d letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| shopping     | 200 | shop:1                                                                                              | verb                            | shop               |                                                           | to examine goods or services with intent to buy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| account      | 201 | account:1                                                                                           | noun                            | ac\*count          | *ə-ˈkau̇nt*                                                | reckoning, computation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English acounte, accompte, from Anglo-French acunte, from acunter                                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| times        | 202 | times:1                                                                                             | preposition                     | times              | *ˈtīmz*                                                   | multiplied by.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| sites        | 203 | site:1                                                                                              | noun                            | site               | *ˈsīt*                                                    | the spatial location of an actual or planned structure or set of structures (as a building, town, or monuments).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Middle English, place, position, from Anglo-French or Latin; Anglo-French sit, site, from Latin situs, from sinere to leave, allow                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| level        | 204 | level:1                                                                                             | noun                            | lev\*el            | *ˈle-vəl*                                                 | a device for establishing a horizontal line or plane by means of a bubble in a liquid that shows adjustment to the horizontal by movement to the center of a slightly bowed glass tube.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, plumb line, from Anglo-French livel, from Vulgar Latin \*libellum, alteration of Latin libella, from diminutive of libra weight, balance                                                                                                                       | english words |
| digital      | 205 | digital:1                                                                                           | adjective                       | dig\*i\*tal        | *ˈdi-jə-tᵊl*                                              | of or relating to the fingers or toes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Latin digitalis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| profile      | 206 | profile:1                                                                                           | noun                            | pro\*file          | *ˈprō-ˌfī(-ə)l*                                           | a representation of something in outline; especially a human head or face represented or seen in a side view.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Italian profilo, from profilare to draw in outline, from pro- forward (from Latin) + filare to spin, from Late Latin file                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| previous     | 207 | previous:1                                                                                          | adjective                       | pre\*vi\*ous       | *ˈprē-vē-əs*                                              | going before in time or order :prior.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Latin praevius leading the way, from prae- pre- + via way way                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| form         | 208 | form:1                                                                                              | noun                            | form               | *ˈfȯrm*                                                   | the shape and structure of something as distinguished from its material.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English forme, from Anglo-French furme, forme, from Latin forma form, beauty                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| events       | 209 | event:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *i-ˈvent*                                                 | outcome.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle French or Latin; Middle French, from Latin eventus, from evenire to happen, from e- + venire to come come                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| love         | 210 | love:1                                                                                              | noun                            | love               | *ˈləv*                                                    | strong affection for another arising out of kinship or personal ties.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Old English lufu; akin to Old High German luba love, Old English lēof dear, Latin lubēre, libēre to please                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| old          | 211 | old:1                                                                                               | adjective                       | old                | *ˈōld; ˈōl*                                               | dating from the remote past :ancient.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Old English eald; akin to Old High German alt old, Latin alere to nourish, alescere to grow, altus high, deep                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| john         | 212 | john:1                                                                                              | noun                            | john               | *ˈjän*                                                    | toilet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | from the name John                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| main         | 213 | main:1                                                                                              | noun                            | main               | *ˈmān*                                                    | physical strength :forcewith might and main.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | in sense 1, from Middle English, from Old English mǣgen; akin to Old High German magan strength, Old English magan to be able; in other senses, from main or by shortening may                                                                                                 | english words |
| call         | 214 | call:1                                                                                              | verb                            |                    | *ˈkȯl*                                                    | to speak in a loud distinct voice so as to be heard at a distance :shout.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English, from Old Norse kalla; akin to Old English hildecalla battle herald, Old High German kallōn to talk loudly, Old Church Slavic glasŭ voice                                                                                                                       | english words |
| hours        | 215 | after-hours:1                                                                                       | adjective                       |                    | *ˌaf-tər-ˈau̇(-ə)rz*                                       | engaged in or operating after a legal or conventional closing time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| image        | 216 | image:1                                                                                             | noun                            | im\*age            | *ˈi-mij*                                                  | a reproduction or imitation of the form of a person or thing; especially an imitation in solid form :statue.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Anglo-French, short for imagene, from Latin imagin-, imago; perhaps akin to Latin imitari to imitate                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| department   | 217 | department:1                                                                                        | noun                            | de\*part\*ment     | *di-ˈpärt-mənt*                                           | a distinct sphere :province.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | French département, from Old French, act of dividing, from departir                                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| title        | 218 | title:1                                                                                             | noun                            | ti\*tle            | *ˈtī-tᵊl*                                                 | inscription.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin titulus inscription, title                                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| description  | 219 | description:1                                                                                       | noun                            | de\*scrip\*tion    | *di-ˈskrip-shən*                                          | an act of describing; specifically discourse intended to give a mental image of something experienced.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English descripcioun, from Anglo-French & Latin; Anglo-French, from Latin description-, descriptio, from describere                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| non          | 220 | non-:1                                                                                              | prefix                          |                    | /(ˈ)nän ˌnən ˈnən ˈ- ˌnän ˌnən ˌ- ə /                     | not :other than :reverse of :absence of.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin non not, from Old Latin noenum, from ne- not + oinom, neuter of oinos one no, one                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| k            | 221 | k:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | k                  | *ˈkā*                                                     | the 11th letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | New Latin kalium                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| y            | 222 | Y:1                                                                                                 | noun                            |                    | *ˈwī*                                                     | ymca.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| insurance    | 223 | insurance:1                                                                                         | noun                            | in\*sur\*ance      | *in-ˈshu̇r-ən(t)s ˈin-ˌ*                                   | the business of insuring persons or property.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| another      | 224 | another:1                                                                                           | adjective                       | an\*oth\*er        | *ə-ˈnə-t͟hər a- ā-*                                        | different or distinct from the one first considered.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| why          | 225 | why:1                                                                                               | adverb                          | why                | *ˈhwī, ˈwī*                                               | for what cause, reason, or purpose.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Old English hwȳ, instr. case of hwæt what what                                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| shall        | 226 | shall:- will have to :must                                                                          | verb                            |                    | *shəl, ˈshal*                                             | \- will have to :must .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English shal (1st & 3d singular present indicative), from Old English sceal; akin to Old High German scal (1st & 3d singular present indicative) ought to, must, Lithuanian skola debt                                                                                  | english words |
| property     | 227 | property:1                                                                                          | noun                            | prop\*er\*ty       | *ˈprä-pər-tē*                                             | a quality or trait belonging and especially peculiar to an individual or thing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English proprete, from Anglo-French propreté, from Latin proprietat-, proprietas, from proprius own                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| class        | 228 | class:1                                                                                             | noun                            | class              | *ˈklas*                                                   | a body of students meeting regularly to study the same subject.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | French classe, from Latin classis group called to military service, fleet, class; perhaps akin to Latin calare to call low                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| cd           | 229 | CD:1                                                                                                | noun                            | cd                 | *ˌsē-ˈdē*                                                 | certificate of deposit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | compact disc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| still        | 230 | still:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | still              | *ˈstil*                                                   | devoid of or abstaining from motion.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English stille, from Old English; akin to Old High German stilli still and perhaps to Old English steall stall stall                                                                                                                                                    | english words |
| money        | 231 | money:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈmə-nē*                                                  | something generally accepted as a medium of exchange, a measure of value, or a means of payment: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English moneye, from Anglo-French moneie, from Latin moneta mint, money mint                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| quality      | 232 | quality:1                                                                                           | noun                            | qual\*i\*ty        | *ˈkwä-lə-tē*                                              | peculiar and essential character :nature.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English qualite, from Anglo-French qualité, from Latin qualitat-, qualitas, from qualis of what kind; akin to Latin qui who who                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| every        | 233 | every:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | ev\*ery            | *ˈev-rē*                                                  | being each individual or part of a group without exception.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English everich, every, from Old English ǣfre ǣlc, from ǣfre ever + ǣlc each                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| listing      | 234 | listing:1                                                                                           | noun                            | list\*ing          | *ˈlis-tiŋ*                                                | an act or instance of making or including in a list.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| content      | 235 | <content:1>                                                                                         | adjective                       |                    | *kən-ˈtent*                                               | contented, satisfied.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Middle French, from Latin contentus, from past participle of continēre to hold in, contain contain                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| country      | 236 | country:1                                                                                           | noun                            | coun\*try          | *ˈkən-trē*                                                | an indefinite usually extended expanse of land :region.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English contree, from Anglo-French cuntree, contré, from Medieval Latin contrata, from Latin contra against, on the opposite side                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| private      | 237 | private:1                                                                                           | adjective                       | pri\*vate          | *ˈprī-vət*                                                | intended for or restricted to the use of a particular person, group, or class.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English privat, from Anglo-French, from Latin privatus, from past participle of privare to deprive, release, from privus private, individual; probably akin to Latin pro for, in front of for                                                                           | english words |
| little       | 238 | little:1                                                                                            | adjective                       | lit\*tle           | *ˈli-tᵊl*                                                 | not big: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English littel, from Old English lȳtel; akin to Old High German luzzil little                                                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| visit        | 239 | visit:1                                                                                             | verb                            | vis\*it            | *ˈvi-zət*                                                 | comfort.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Anglo-French visiter, from Latin visitare, frequentative of visere to go to see, frequentative of vidēre to see                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| save         | 240 | save:1                                                                                              | verb                            | save               | *ˈsāv*                                                    | to deliver from sin.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Anglo-French salver, from Late Latin salvare, from Latin salvus safe safe                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| tools        | 241 | <tool:1>                                                                                            | noun                            | tool               | *ˈtül*                                                    | a handheld device that aids in accomplishing a task.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Old English tōl; akin to Old English tawian to prepare for use taw                                                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| low          | 242 | low:1                                                                                               | verb                            |                    | *ˈlō*                                                     | moo.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English loowen, from Old English hlōwan; akin to Old High German hluoen to moo, Latin calare to call, summon, Greek kalein                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| reply        | 243 | reply:1                                                                                             | verb                            |                    | *ri-ˈplī*                                                 | to respond in words or writing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English replien to fold back, oppose, respond, from Anglo-French replier, from Latin replicare to fold back, make a legal replication, from re- + plicare to fold ply                                                                                                   | english words |
| customer     | 244 | customer:1                                                                                          | noun                            | cus\*tom\*er       | *ˈkəs-tə-mər*                                             | one that purchases a commodity or service.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English custumer, from custume                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | english words |
| december     | 245 | December:1                                                                                          | noun                            |                    | *di-ˈsem-bər, dē-*                                        | the 12th month of the Gregorian calendar.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English Decembre, from Old English or Anglo-French, both from Latin December (tenth month), from decem ten ten                                                                                                                                                          | english words |
| compare      | 246 | compare:1                                                                                           | verb                            | com\*pare          | *kəm-ˈper*                                                | to represent as similar :liken.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Anglo-French comparer, from Latin comparare to couple, compare, from compar like, from com- + par equal                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| movies       | 247 | movie:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈmü-vē*                                                  | motion picture.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | moving picture                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| include      | 248 | include:1                                                                                           | verb                            | in\*clude          | *in-ˈklüd*                                                | to shut up :enclose.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Latin includere, from in- + claudere to close close                                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| college      | 249 | college:1                                                                                           | noun                            | col\*lege          | *ˈkä-lij*                                                 | a body of clergy living together and supported by a foundation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin collegium society, from collega colleague colleague                                                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| value        | 250 | value:1                                                                                             | noun                            | val\*ue            | *ˈval-(ˌ)yü*                                              | a fair return or equivalent in goods, services, or money for something exchanged.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, worth, high quality, from Anglo-French, from Vulgar Latin \*valuta, from feminine of \*valutus, past participle of Latin valēre to be of worth, be strong wield                                                                                                | english words |
| article      | 101 | article:1                                                                                           | noun                            |                    | *ˈär-ti-kəl*                                              | a distinct often numbered section of a writing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin articulus joint, division, diminutive of artus joint, limb; akin to Greek arariskein to fit arm                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| york         | 102 | York:1                                                                                              | biographical name               | York               | *ˈyȯrk*                                                   | Alvin Cullum 1887–1964 Am. soldier.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| man          | 103 | man:1                                                                                               | noun                            |                    | *ˈman, ˌman mən*                                          | an individual human; especially an adult male human.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Old English man, mon human being, male human; akin to Old High German man human being, Sanskrit manu                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| card         | 104 | card:1                                                                                              | verb                            | card               | *ˈkärd*                                                   | to cleanse, disentangle, and collect together (as fibers) by the use of cards preparatory to spinning.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English carde, from Medieval Latin cardus, carduus, thistle, carding instrument, from Latin carduus thistle chard                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| jobs         | 105 | Jobs:1                                                                                              | biographical name               | Jobs               | *ˈjäbz*                                                   | Steven Paul 1955–     Am. computer entrepreneur.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| provide      | 106 | provide:1                                                                                           | verb                            | pro\*vide          | *prə-ˈvīd*                                                | to take precautionary measures.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Latin providēre, literally, to see ahead, from pro- forward + vidēre to see pro-, wit                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| j            | 107 | j:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | j                  | *ˈjā*                                                     | the 10th letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| food         | 108 | food:1                                                                                              | noun                            | food               | *ˈfüd*                                                    | material consisting essentially of protein, carbohydrate, and fat used in the body of an organism to sustain growth, repair, and vital processes and to furnish energy; also such food together with supplementary substances (as minerals, vitamins, and condiments).                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English fode, from Old English fōda; akin to Old High German fuotar food, fodder, Latin panis bread, pascere to feed                                                                                                                                                    | english words |
| source       | 109 | source:1                                                                                            | noun                            | source             | *ˈsȯrs*                                                   | a generative force :cause.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English sours, from Anglo-French surse spring, source, from past participle of surdre to rise, spring forth, from Latin surgere surge                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| author       | 110 | author:1                                                                                            | noun                            | au\*thor           | *ˈȯ-thər*                                                 | one that originates or creates :source.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English auctour, from Anglo-French auctor, autor, from Latin auctor promoter, originator, author, from augēre to increase eke                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| different    | 111 | different:1                                                                                         | adjective                       | dif\*fer\*ent      | *ˈdi-fərnt, ˈdi-f(ə-)rənt*                                | partly or totally unlike in nature, form, or quality :dissimilaroften followed by from, than, or chiefly British to.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Latin different-, differens, present participle of differre (see differ)                                                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| press        | 112 | press:1                                                                                             | noun                            | press              | *ˈpres*                                                   | a crowd or crowded condition :throng.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English presse, from Anglo-French, from presser to press                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| u            | 113 | u:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | u                  | *ˈyü*                                                     | the 21st letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | upper class                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | english words |
| learn        | 114 | learn:1                                                                                             | verb                            |                    | *ˈlərn*                                                   | to gain knowledge or understanding of or skill in by study, instruction, or experience.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English lernen, from Old English leornian; akin to Old High German lernēn to learn, Old English last footprint, Latin lira furrow, track                                                                                                                                | english words |
| sale         | 115 | sale:1                                                                                              | noun                            | sale               | *ˈsāl*                                                    | the act of selling; specifically the transfer of ownership of and title to property from one person to another for a price.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Old English sala; akin to Old High German sala transfer, Old English sellan to sell sell                                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| around       | 116 | around:1                                                                                            | adverb                          | around             | *ə-ˈrau̇nd*                                                | in a circle or in circumference.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Middle English, from a- + round                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| print        | 117 | print:1                                                                                             | noun                            | print              | *ˈprint*                                                  | a mark made by pressure :impression.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English prente, from Anglo-French, from preint, prient, past participle of priendre to press, from Latin premere press                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| course       | 118 | course:1                                                                                            | noun                            |                    | *ˈkȯrs*                                                   | the act or action of moving in a path from point to point.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English, from Anglo-French curs, course, from Latin cursus, from currere to run car                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| job          | 119 | Job:1                                                                                               | noun                            | job                | *ˈjōb*                                                    | the hero of the book of Job who endures afflictions with fortitude and faith.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Latin, from Greek Iōb, from Hebrew Iyyōbh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| canada       | 120 | Canada:1                                                                                            | geographical name               | Can\*a\*da         | *ˈka-nə-də*                                               | country N North America including Newfoundland & Arctic islands N of mainland; an independent state within the Commonwealth of Nations ✽ Ottawa area 3,851,809 square miles (10,014,703 square kilometers), pop 31,612,897.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| process      | 121 | process:1                                                                                           | noun                            | pro\*cess          | *ˈprä-ˌses, ˈprō-, -səs*                                  | progress, advance.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English proces, from Anglo-French procés, from Latin processus, from procedere                                                                                                                                                                                          | english words |
| teen         | 122 | teen:1                                                                                              | noun                            | teen               | *ˈtēn*                                                    | misery, affliction.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English tene, from Old English tēona injury, grief; akin to Old Norse tjōn loss, damage                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| room         | 123 | room:1                                                                                              | noun                            | room               | *ˈrüm, ˈru̇m*                                              | an extent of space occupied by or sufficient or available for something.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Old English rūm; akin to Old High German rūm room, Latin rur-, rus open land                                                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| stock        | 124 | stock:1                                                                                             | noun                            | stock              | *ˈstäk*                                                   | stump.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English stok, from Old English stocc; akin to Old High German stoc stick                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| training     | 125 | training:1                                                                                          | noun                            |                    | *ˈtrā-niŋ*                                                | the act, process, or method of one that trains.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| too          | 126 | too:1                                                                                               | adverb                          | too                | *ˈtü*                                                     | besides, also.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Old English tō to, too to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| credit       | 127 | credit:1                                                                                            | noun                            | cred\*it           | *ˈkre-dit*                                                | reliance on the truth or reality of something.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle French, from Old Italian credito, from Latin creditum something entrusted to another, loan, from neuter of creditus, past participle of credere to believe, entrust creed                                                                                               | english words |
| point        | 128 | point:1                                                                                             | noun                            | point              | *ˈpȯint*                                                  | an individual detail :item.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, partly from Anglo-French, prick, dot, moment, from Latin punctum, from neuter of punctus, past participle of pungere to prick; partly from Anglo-French pointe sharp end, from Vulgar Latin \*puncta, from Latin, feminine of punctus, past participle pungent | english words |
| join         | 129 | join:1                                                                                              | verb                            | join               | *ˈjȯin*                                                   | to put or bring together so as to form a unit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Anglo-French joindre, from Latin jungere yoke                                                                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| science      | 130 | science:1                                                                                           | noun                            |                    | *ˈsī-ən(t)s*                                              | the state of knowing :knowledge as distinguished from ignorance or misunderstanding.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin scientia, from scient-, sciens having knowledge, from present participle of scire to know; perhaps akin to Sanskrit chyati he cuts off, Latin scindere to split shed                                                             | english words |
| men          | 131 | men:1                                                                                               |                                 |                    |                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| categories   | 132 | category:1                                                                                          | noun                            |                    | *ˈka-tə-ˌgȯr-ē*                                           | any of several fundamental and distinct classes to which entities or concepts belong.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Late Latin categoria, from Greek katēgoria predication, category, from katēgorein to accuse, affirm, predicate, from kata- + agora public assembly, from ageirein to gather                                                                                                    | english words |
| advanced     | 133 | advanced:1                                                                                          | adjective                       | ad\*vanced         |                                                           | far on in time or course.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| west         | 134 | west:1                                                                                              | adverb                          | west               | *ˈwest*                                                   | to, toward, or in the west.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old High German westar to the west and probably to Latin vesper evening, Greek hesperos                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| sales        | 135 | sales:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | sales              | *ˈsālz*                                                   | of, relating to, or used in selling.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| look         | 136 | look:1                                                                                              | verb                            | look               | *ˈlu̇k*                                                    | to make sure or take care (that something is done).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Old English lōcian; akin to Old Saxon lōcōn to look                                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| english      | 137 | English:1                                                                                           | adjective                       | En\*glish          | *ˈiŋ-glish, ˈiŋ-lish*                                     | of, relating to, or characteristic of England, the English people, or the English language.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Old English englisc, from Engle (plural) Angles                                                                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| left         | 138 | left:1                                                                                              | adjective                       |                    | *ˈleft*                                                   | of, relating to, situated on, or being the side of the body in which the heart is mostly located.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, from Old English, weak; akin to Middle Low German lucht left; from the left hand's being the weaker in most individuals                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| team         | 139 | team:1                                                                                              | noun                            | team               | *ˈtēm*                                                    | two or more draft animals harnessed to the same vehicle or implement; also these with their harness and attached vehicle.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English teme, from Old English tēam offspring, lineage, group of draft animals; akin to Old High German zoum rein, Old English tēon to draw, pull tow                                                                                                                   | english words |
| estate       | 140 | estate:1                                                                                            | noun                            | es\*tate           | *i-ˈstāt*                                                 | state, condition.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English estat, from Anglo-French state                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| box          | 141 | box:1                                                                                               | noun                            | box                | *ˈbäks*                                                   | an evergreen shrub or small tree (genus Buxus of the family Buxaceae, the box family) with opposite entire leaves and capsular fruits; especially a widely cultivated shrub (B. sempervirens) used for hedges, borders, and topiary figures.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Old English, from Latin buxus, from Greek pyxos                                                                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| conditions   | 142 | condition:1                                                                                         | noun                            | con\*di\*tion      | *kən-ˈdi-shən*                                            | a premise upon which the fulfillment of an agreement depends :stipulation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English condicion, from Anglo-French, from Latin condicion-, condicio terms of agreement, condition, from condicere to agree, from com- + dicere to say, determine diction                                                                                              | english words |
| select       | 143 | select:1                                                                                            | adjective                       | se\*lect           | *sə-ˈlekt*                                                | chosen from a number or group by fitness or preference.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Latin selectus, past participle of seligere to select, from se- apart (from sed, se without) + legere to gather, select suicide, legend                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| windows      | 144 | window:1                                                                                            | noun                            |                    | *ˈwin-(ˌ)dō*                                              | an opening especially in the wall of a building for admission of light and air that is usually closed by casements or sashes containing transparent material (as glass) and capable of being opened and shut.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English windowe, from Old Norse vindauga, from vindr wind (akin to Old English wind) + auga eye; akin to Old English ēage eye eye                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| photos       | 145 | photo:1                                                                                             | noun                            | pho\*to            | *ˈfō-(ˌ)tō*                                               | photograph.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| gay          | 146 | gay:1                                                                                               | adjective                       | gay                | *ˈgā*                                                     | happily excited :merry.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Anglo-French gai, of Germanic origin; akin to Old High German gāhi quick, sudden                                                                                                                                                                          | english words |
| thread       | 147 | thread:1                                                                                            | noun                            | thread             | *ˈthred*                                                  | a filament, a group of filaments twisted together, or a filamentous length formed by spinning and twisting short textile fibers into a continuous strand.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English thred, from Old English thrǣd; akin to Old High German drāt wire, Old English thrāwan to cause to twist or turn throw                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| week         | 148 | week:1                                                                                              | noun                            | week               | *ˈwēk*                                                    | any of a series of 7-day cycles used in various calendars; especially a 7-day cycle beginning on Sunday and ending on Saturday.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English weke, from Old English wicu, wucu; akin to Old High German wehha week and perhaps to Latin vicis change, alternation, Old High German wehsal exchange                                                                                                           | english words |
| category     | 149 | category:1                                                                                          | noun                            | cat\*e\*go\*ry     | *ˈka-tə-ˌgȯr-ē*                                           | any of several fundamental and distinct classes to which entities or concepts belong.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Late Latin categoria, from Greek katēgoria predication, category, from katēgorein to accuse, affirm, predicate, from kata- + agora public assembly, from ageirein to gather                                                                                                    | english words |
| note         | 150 | note:1                                                                                              | verb                            | note               | *ˈnōt*                                                    | to notice or observe with care.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Anglo-French noter, from Latin notare to mark, note, from nota                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| live         | 151 | live:1                                                                                              | verb                            |                    | *ˈliv*                                                    | to be alive :have the life of an animal or plant.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, from Old English libban; akin to Old High German lebēn to live                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| large        | 152 | large:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | large              | *ˈlärj*                                                   | lavish.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Anglo-French, broad, wide, generous, from Latin largus generous, plentiful                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| gallery      | 153 | gallery:1                                                                                           | noun                            | gal\*lery          | *ˈga-lə-rē, ˈgal-rē*                                      | a roofed promenade :colonnade.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English galerie, from Medieval Latin galeria, probably alteration of galilaea galilee                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| table        | 154 | table:1                                                                                             | noun                            | ta\*ble            | *ˈtā-bəl*                                                 | tablet 1a.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English, from Old English tabule & Anglo-French table; both from Latin tabula board, tablet, list                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| register     | 155 | register:1                                                                                          | noun                            | reg\*is\*ter       | *ˈre-jə-stər*                                             | a written record containing regular entries of items or details.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Middle English registre, from Anglo-French, from Medieval Latin registrum, alteration of Late Latin regesta, plural, register, from Latin, neuter plural of regestus, past participle of regerere to bring back, pile up, collect, from re- + gerere to bear                   | english words |
| however      | 156 | however:1                                                                                           | conjunction                     | how\*ev\*er        | *hau̇-ˈe-vər*                                              | in whatever manner or way that.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| june         | 157 | June:1                                                                                              | noun                            |                    | *ˈjün*                                                    | the sixth month of the Gregorian calendar.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English, from Anglo-French & Latin; Anglo-French Juin, from Latin Junius                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| october      | 158 | October:1                                                                                           | noun                            |                    | *äk-ˈtō-bər*                                              | the 10th month of the Gregorian calendar.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English Octobre, from Old English & Anglo-French; Old English October, from Latin, 8th month of the early Roman calendar, from octo; Anglo-French, from Latin October                                                                                                   | english words |
| november     | 159 | November:1                                                                                          | noun                            | No\*vem\*ber       | *nō-ˈvem-bər, nə-*                                        | the 11th month of the Gregorian calendar.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English Novembre, from Anglo-French, from Latin November, ninth month of the early Roman calendar, from novem nine nine                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| market       | 160 | <market:1>                                                                                          | noun                            | mar\*ket           | *ˈmär-kət*                                                | a meeting together of people for the purpose of trade by private purchase and sale and usually not by auction.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, probably from Continental GMC; akin to Old Saxon markat marketplace, Old High German marcāt, both ultimately from Latin mercatus trade, marketplace, from mercari to trade, from merc-, merx merchandise                                                       | english words |
| library      | 161 | library:1                                                                                           | noun                            | li\*brary          | *ˈlī-ˌbrer-ē, -ˌbre-rē; -brər-ē; -brē, ÷-ˌber-ē, -ˌbe-rē* | a place in which literary, musical, artistic, or reference materials (as books, manuscripts, recordings, or films) are kept for use but not for sale.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Anglo-French librarie, Medieval Latin librarium, from Latin, neuter of librarius of books, from libr-, liber inner bark, rind, book                                                                                                                       | english words |
| really       | 162 | really:1                                                                                            | adverb                          | re\*al\*ly         | *ˈrē-(ə-)lē*                                              | in reality :actually.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| action       | 163 | action:1                                                                                            | noun                            | ac\*tion           | *ˈak-shən*                                                | the initiating of a proceeding in a court of justice by which one demands or enforces one's right; also the proceeding itself.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English accioun, from Anglo-French accion, from Latin action-, actio, from agere to do agent                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| start        | 164 | start:1                                                                                             | verb                            | start              | *ˈstärt*                                                  | to move suddenly and violently :spring.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English sterten; akin to Middle High German sterzen to stand up stiffly, move quickly                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| series       | 165 | series:1                                                                                            | noun                            | se\*ries           | *ˈsir-(ˌ)ēz*                                              | a number of things or events of the same class coming one after another in spatial or temporal succession.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Latin, from serere to join, link together; akin to Greek eirein to string together, hormos chain, necklace, and perhaps to Latin sort-, sors lot                                                                                                                               | english words |
| model        | 166 | model:1                                                                                             | noun                            | mod\*el            | *ˈmä-dᵊl*                                                 | a set of plans for a building.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle French modelle, from Old Italian modello, from Vulgar Latin \*modellus, from Latin modulus small measure, from modus                                                                                                                                                    | english words |
| features     | 167 | feature:1                                                                                           | noun                            | fea\*ture          | *ˈfē-chər*                                                | the structure, form, or appearance especially of a person.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English feture, from Anglo-French, from Latin factura act of making, from factus, past participle of facere to make do                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| air          | 168 | air:1                                                                                               | noun                            | air                | *ˈer*                                                     | breath.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin aer, from Greek aēr                                                                                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| industry     | 169 | industry:1                                                                                          | noun                            | in\*dus\*try       | *ˈin-(ˌ)dəs-trē*                                          | diligence in an employment or pursuit; especially steady or habitual effort.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English (Scots) industrie, from Middle French, from Latin industria, from industrius diligent, from Old Latin indostruus, perhaps from indu in + -struus (akin to Latin struere to build) end-, strew                                                                   | english words |
| plan         | 170 | plan:1                                                                                              | noun                            | plan               | *ˈplan*                                                   | a drawing or diagram drawn on a plane: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | French, plane, foundation, ground plan; partly from Latin planum level ground, from neuter of planus level; partly from French planter to plant, fix in place, from Late Latin plantare floor, plant                                                                           | english words |
| human        | 171 | human:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | hu\*man            | *ˈhyü-mən, ˈyü-*                                          | of, relating to, or characteristic of humans.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English humain, from Anglo-French, from Latin humanus; akin to Latin homo human being homage                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| provided     | 172 | provided:1                                                                                          | conjunction                     | pro\*vid\*ed       |                                                           | on condition that :with the understanding :if.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, past participle of providen to provide                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| tv           | 173 | <TV:1>                                                                                              | noun                            | TV                 | *ˈtē-ˈvē*                                                 | television.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | television                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| yes          | 174 | yes:1                                                                                               | adverb                          | yes                | *ˈyes*                                                    | used as a function word to express assent or agreement.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Old English gēse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | english words |
| required     | 175 | require:1                                                                                           | verb                            | re\*quired         | *ri-ˈkwī(-ə)r*                                            | to claim or ask for by right and authority.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English requeren, from Anglo-French requere, from Vulgar Latin \*requaerere to seek for, need, require, alteration of Latin requirere, from re- + quaerere to seek, ask                                                                                                 | english words |
| second       | 176 | second:1                                                                                            | adjective                       | sec\*ond           | *ˈse-kənd -kənt, -kən, -kᵊŋ*                              | next to the first in place or time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Anglo-French secund, from Latin secundus second, following, favorable, from sequi to follow sue                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| hot          | 177 | hot:1                                                                                               | adjective                       |                    | *ˈhät*                                                    | having a relatively high temperature.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Old English hāt; akin to Old High German heiz hot, Lithuanian kaisti to get hot                                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| accessories  | 178 | accessory:1                                                                                         | noun                            | ac\*ces\*so\*ry    |                                                           | a person not actually or constructively present but contributing as an assistant or instigator to the commission of an offense called also accessory before the fact.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| cost         | 179 | cost:1                                                                                              | noun                            | cost               | *ˈkȯst*                                                   | the amount or equivalent paid or charged for something :price.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Anglo-French custer, couster, from Latin constare to stand firm, cost constant                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| movie        | 180 | movie:1                                                                                             | noun                            | mov\*ie            | *ˈmü-vē*                                                  | motion picture.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | moving picture                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| forums       | 181 | forum:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈfȯr-əm*                                                 | the marketplace or public place of an ancient Roman city forming the center of judicial and public business.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Latin; akin to Latin foris outside, fores door door                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| march        | 182 | march:1                                                                                             | noun                            | march              | *ˈmärch*                                                  | a border region :frontier; especially a district originally set up to defend a boundary.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English marche, from Anglo-French, of Germanic origin; akin to Old High German marha boundary mark                                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| la           | 183 | la:1                                                                                                | interjection                    | la                 | *ˈlȯ, ˈlä*                                                | used for emphasis or expressing surprise.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English (northern dialect), from Old English lā                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| september    | 184 | September:1                                                                                         | noun                            |                    | *sep-ˈtem-bər, səp-*                                      | the ninth month of the Gregorian calendar.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English Septembre, from Anglo-French & Old English, both from Latin September (seventh month), from septem seven seven                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| better       | 185 | better:1                                                                                            | adjective                       |                    | *ˈbe-tər*                                                 | greater than half.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English bettre, from Old English betera; akin to Old English bōt remedy, Sanskrit bhadra fortunate                                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| say          | 186 | say:1                                                                                               | verb                            |                    | *ˈsā, ˈse*                                                | to express in words :state.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Old English secgan; akin to Old High German sagēn to say, Lithuanian sakyti, Greek ennepein to speak, tell                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| questions    | 187 | question:1                                                                                          | noun                            | question           | *ˈkwes-chən, ˈkwesh-*                                     | an interrogative expression often used to test knowledge.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin quaestion-, quaestio, from quaerere to seek, ask                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| july         | 188 | July:1                                                                                              | noun                            |                    | *ju̇-ˈlī, jə-*                                             | the seventh month of the Gregorian calendar.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English Julie, from Old English Julius, from Latin, from Gaius Julius Caesar                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| yahoo        | 189 | yahoo:1                                                                                             | noun                            | ya\*hoo            | *ˈyā-(ˌ)hü, ˈyä-*                                         | a member of a race of brutes in Swift's Gulliver's Travels who have the form and all the vices of humans.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | perhaps alteration of yo-ho, interjection used to attract attention, from yo + ho                                                                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| going        | 190 | going:1                                                                                             | noun                            | go\*ing            | *ˈgō-iŋ, ˈgȯ(-)iŋ*                                        | an act or instance of going.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| medical      | 191 | medical:1                                                                                           | adjective                       | med\*i\*cal        | *ˈme-di-kəl*                                              | of, relating to, or concerned with physicians or the practice of medicine.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | French or Late Latin; French médical, from Late Latin medicalis, from Latin medicus physician, from mederi to remedy, heal; akin to Avestan vī-mad- healer, Greek medesthai to be mindful of mete                                                                              | english words |
| test         | 192 | test:1                                                                                              | noun                            | test               | *ˈtest*                                                   | cupel.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, vessel in which metals were assayed, potsherd, from Anglo-French test, tees pot, Latin testum earthen vessel; akin to Latin testa earthen pot, shell                                                                                                           | english words |
| friend       | 193 | friend:1                                                                                            | noun                            | friend             | *ˈfrend*                                                  | one attached to another by affection or esteem.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English frend, from Old English frēond; akin to Old High German friunt friend, Old English frēon to love, frēo free                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| come         | 194 | come:1                                                                                              | verb                            |                    | *ˈkəm*                                                    | to move toward something :approach.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Old English cuman; akin to Old High German queman to come, Latin venire, Greek bainein to walk, go                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| dec          | 195 | Dec:1                                                                                               | abbreviation                    | dec                |                                                           | December.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| server       | 196 | server:1                                                                                            | noun                            | serv\*er           | *ˈsər-vər*                                                | one that serves food or drink.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| pc           | 197 | PC:1                                                                                                | noun                            | pc                 | *ˌpē-ˈsē*                                                 | personal computer.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| study        | 198 | study:1                                                                                             | noun                            | study              | *ˈstə-dē*                                                 | a state of contemplation :reverie.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English studie, from Anglo-French estudie, from Latin studium, from studēre to devote oneself, study; probably akin to Latin tundere to beat contusion                                                                                                                  | english words |
| application  | 199 | application:1                                                                                       | noun                            | ap\*pli\*ca\*tion  | *ˌa-plə-ˈkā-shən*                                         | an act of applying:.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English applicacioun, from Latin application-, applicatio inclination, from applicare                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| cart         | 200 | cart:1                                                                                              | noun                            | cart               | *ˈkärt*                                                   | a heavy usually horse-drawn 2-wheeled vehicle used for farming or transporting freight.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, probably from Old Norse kartr; akin to Old English cræt cart                                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| staff        | 201 | staff:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈstaf*                                                   | a long stick carried in the hand for support in walking.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English staf, from Old English stæf; akin to Old High German stab staff, Sanskrit stabhnāti he supports                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| articles     | 202 | article:1                                                                                           | noun                            |                    | *ˈär-ti-kəl*                                              | a distinct often numbered section of a writing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin articulus joint, division, diminutive of artus joint, limb; akin to Greek arariskein to fit arm                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| san          | 203 | San:1                                                                                               | noun                            | San Mar\*tín       | *ˈsän*                                                    | bushmen.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Khoikhoi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| feedback     | 204 | feedback:1                                                                                          | noun                            | feed\*back         | *ˈfēd-ˌbak*                                               | the return to the input of a part of the output of a machine, system, or process (as for producing changes in an electronic circuit that improve performance or in an automatic control device that provide self-corrective action).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| again        | 205 | again:1                                                                                             | adverb                          |                    | *ə-ˈgen, -ˈgin, -ˈgān*                                    | in return :back.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Middle English, opposite, again, from Old English ongēan opposite, back, from on + gēn, gēan still, again; akin to Old English gēan- against, Old High German gegin against, toward                                                                                            | english words |
| play         | 206 | play:1                                                                                              | noun                            | play               | *ˈplā*                                                    | swordplay.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English, from Old English plega; akin to Old English plegan to play, Middle Dutch pleyen                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| looking      | 207 | look:1                                                                                              | verb                            | look               | *ˈlu̇k*                                                    | to make sure or take care (that something is done).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Old English lōcian; akin to Old Saxon lōcōn to look                                                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| issues       | 208 | issue:1                                                                                             | noun                            | is\*sue            | *ˈi-(ˌ)shü, ˈi-shə, ˈis-(ˌ)yü*                            | proceeds from a source of revenue (as an estate).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, exit, proceeds, from Anglo-French, from issir to come out, go out, from Latin exire to go out, from ex- + ire to go; akin to Gothic iddja he went, Greek ienai to go, Sanskrit eti he goes                                                                     | english words |
| april        | 209 | April:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈā-prəl*                                                 | the fourth month of the Gregorian calendar.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Anglo-French & Latin; Anglo-French avrill, from Latin Aprilis                                                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| never        | 210 | never:1                                                                                             | adverb                          | nev\*er            | *ˈne-vər*                                                 | not ever :at no time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Old English nǣfre, from ne not + ǣfre ever no                                                                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| users        | 211 | user:1                                                                                              | noun                            |                    | *ˈyü-zər*                                                 | one that uses.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| complete     | 212 | complete:1                                                                                          | adjective                       |                    | *kəm-ˈplēt*                                               | having all necessary parts, elements, or steps.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English complet, from Latin completus, from past participle of complēre                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| street       | 213 | street:1                                                                                            | noun                            | street             | *ˈstrēt*                                                  | a thoroughfare especially in a city, town, or village that is wider than an alley or lane and that usually includes sidewalks.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English strete, from Old English strǣt, from Late Latin strata paved road, from Latin, feminine of stratus, past participle stratum                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| topic        | 214 | topic:1                                                                                             | noun                            | top\*ic            | *ˈtä-pik*                                                 | one of the general forms of argument employed in probable reasoning.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Latin Topica Topics (work by Aristotle), from Greek Topika, from topika, neuter plural of topikos of a place, of a topos, from topos place, topos                                                                                                                              | english words |
| comment      | 215 | comment:1                                                                                           | noun                            | com\*ment          | *ˈkä-ˌment*                                               | commentary.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Late Latin commentum, from Latin, invention, from neuter of commentus, past participle of comminisci to invent, from com- + -minisci (akin to ment-, mens mind) mind                                                                                      | english words |
| financial    | 216 | financial:1                                                                                         | adjective                       | fi\*nan\*cial      | *fə-ˈnan(t)-shəl, fī-*                                    | relating to finance or financiers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| things       | 217 | thing:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈthiŋ*                                                   | a matter of concern :affair.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Old English, thing, assembly; akin to Old High German ding thing, assembly, Gothic theihs time                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| working      | 218 | working:1                                                                                           | noun                            | work\*ing          | *ˈwər-kiŋ*                                                | the manner of functioning or operating :operation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| against      | 219 | against:1                                                                                           | preposition                     |                    | *ə-ˈgen(t)st, -ˈgin(t)st, -ˈgān(t)st*                     | in opposition or hostility to.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, alteration of againes, from again                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| standard     | 220 | standard:1                                                                                          | noun                            | stan\*dard         | *ˈstan-dərd*                                              | a conspicuous object (as a banner) formerly carried at the top of a pole and used to mark a rallying point especially in battle or to serve as an emblem.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English, from Anglo-French estandard banner, standard, of Germanic origin; akin to Old English standan to stand and probably to Old High German hart hard                                                                                                               | english words |
| tax          | 221 | tax:1                                                                                               | verb                            | tax                | *ˈtaks*                                                   | to assess or determine judicially the amount of (costs in a court action).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English, to estimate, assess, tax, from Anglo-French taxer, from Medieval Latin taxare, from Latin, to feel, estimate, censure, frequentative of tangere to touch tangent                                                                                               | english words |
| person       | 222 | person:1                                                                                            | noun                            | per\*son           | *ˈpər-sᵊn*                                                | human individual sometimes used in combination especially by those who prefer to avoid man in compounds applicable to both sexes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, from Anglo-French persone, from Latin persona actor's mask, character in a play, person, probably from Etruscan phersu mask, from Greek prosōpa, plural of prosōpon face, mask prosopopoeia                                                                    | english words |
| below        | 223 | below:1                                                                                             | adverb                          | be\*low            | *bi-ˈlō*                                                  | in or to a lower place.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English bilooghe, from bi by + looghe low, adjective                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | english words |
| mobile       | 224 | mobile:1                                                                                            | adjective                       | mo\*bile           | *ˈmō-bəl, -ˌbī-əl -ˌbēl*                                  | capable of moving or being moved :movable.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English mobyll, from Anglo-French moble, from Latin mobilis, from movēre to move                                                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| less         | 225 | less:1                                                                                              | adjective                       | less               | *ˈles*                                                    | constituting a more limited number or amount.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English, partly from Old English lǣs, adverb & noun; partly from lǣssa, adjective; akin to OldFrisian lēs less                                                                                                                                                          | english words |
| got          | 226 | got:1                                                                                               |                                 |                    |                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| blog         | 227 | blog:1                                                                                              | noun                            | blog               | *ˈblȯg, ˈbläg*                                            | a Web site that contains an online personal journal with reflections, comments, and often hyperlinks provided by the writer; also the contents of such a site.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | short for Weblog                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| party        | 228 | party:1                                                                                             | noun                            | par\*ty            | *ˈpär-tē*                                                 | a person or group taking one side of a question, dispute, or contest.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English partie part, party, from Anglo-French, from partir to divide part                                                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| payment      | 229 | payment:1                                                                                           | noun                            | pay\*ment          | *ˈpā-mənt*                                                | the act of paying.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| equipment    | 230 | equipment:1                                                                                         | noun                            | equip\*ment        | *i-ˈkwip-mənt*                                            | the set of articles or physical resources serving to equip a person or thing: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| login        | 231 | log in:1                                                                                            | verb                            |                    |                                                           | log on.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| student      | 232 | student:1                                                                                           | noun                            | stu\*dent          | *ˈstü-dᵊnt, ˈstyü-, -dənt*                                | scholar, learner; especially one who attends a school.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, from Latin student-, studens, from present participle of studēre to study study                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| let          | 233 | let:1                                                                                               | verb                            | let                | *ˈlet*                                                    | hinder, prevent.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Middle English letten, from Old English lettan to delay, hinder; akin to Old High German lezzen to delay, hurt, Old English lǣt late                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| programs     | 234 | program:1                                                                                           | noun                            | pro\*gram          | *ˈprō-ˌgram, -grəm*                                       | a public notice.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | French programme agenda, public notice, from Greek programma, from prographein to write before, from pro- before + graphein to write carve                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| offers       | 235 | offer:1                                                                                             | verb                            | of\*fer            | *ˈȯ-fər, ˈä-*                                             | to present as an act of worship or devotion :sacrifice.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English offren, in sense 1, from Old English offrian, from Late Latin offerre, from Latin, to present, tender, from ob- toward + ferre to carry; in other senses, from Anglo-French offrir, from Latin offerre bear                                                     | english words |
| legal        | 236 | legal:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | le\*gal            | *ˈlē-gəl*                                                 | of or relating to law.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Anglo-French, from Latin legalis, from leg-, lex law                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| above        | 237 | above:1                                                                                             | adverb                          | above              | *ə-ˈbəv*                                                  | in the sky :overhead.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Old English abufan, from a- + bufan above, from be- + ufan above; akin to Old English ofer over                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| recent       | 238 | recent:1                                                                                            | adjective                       | re\*cent           | *ˈrē-sᵊnt*                                                | having lately come into existence :new fresh.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English, from Latin recent-, recens; perhaps akin to Greek kainos new                                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| park         | 239 | park:1                                                                                              | noun                            | park               | *ˈpärk*                                                   | an enclosed piece of ground stocked with game and held by royal prescription or grant.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Medieval Latin parricus, from pre-L \*parra pole, trellis                                                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| stores       | 240 | store:1                                                                                             | verb                            | store              | *ˈstȯr*                                                   | lay away, accumulate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Anglo-French estorer to establish, restore, supply, from Latin instaurare to resume, restore                                                                                                                                                              | english words |
| side         | 241 | side:1                                                                                              | noun                            | side               | *ˈsīd*                                                    | the right or left part of the wall or trunk of the body.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Old English sīde; akin to Old High German sīta side, Old English sīd ample, wide                                                                                                                                                                          | english words |
| act          | 242 | act:1                                                                                               | noun                            | act                | *ˈakt*                                                    | the doing of a thing :deed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, partly from Latin actus doing, act, from agere to drive, do; partly from Latin actum thing done, record, from neuter of actus, past participle of agere agent                                                                                                  | english words |
| problem      | 243 | problem:1                                                                                           | noun                            | prob\*lem          | *ˈprä-bləm, -bᵊm, -ˌblem*                                 | a question raised for inquiry, consideration, or solution.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English probleme, from Latin problema, from Greek problēma, literally, obstacle, from proballein to throw forward, from pro- forward + ballein to throw pro-, devil                                                                                                     | english words |
| red          | 244 | red:1                                                                                               | adjective                       |                    | *ˈred*                                                    | of the color red.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, from Old English rēad; akin to Old High German rōt red, Latin ruber & rufus, Greek erythros                                                                                                                                                                    | english words |
| give         | 245 | give:1                                                                                              | verb                            |                    | *ˈgiv*                                                    | to make a present of.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, of Scandinavian origin; akin to Old Swedish giva to give; akin to Old English giefan, gifan to give, and perhaps to Latin habēre to have, hold                                                                                                                 | english words |
| memory       | 246 | memory:1                                                                                            | noun                            | mem\*o\*ry         | *ˈmem-rē, ˈme-mə-*                                        | the power or process of reproducing or recalling what has been learned and retained especially through associative mechanisms.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English memorie, from Anglo-French memoire, memorie, from Latin memoria, from memor mindful; akin to Old English gemimor well-known, Greek mermēra care, Sanskrit smarati he remembers                                                                                  | english words |
| performance  | 247 | performance:1                                                                                       | noun                            | per\*for\*mance    | *pə(r)-ˈfȯr-mən(t)s*                                      | the execution of an action.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| social       | 248 | social:1                                                                                            | adjective                       | so\*cial           | *ˈsō-shəl*                                                | involving allies or confederates.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, from Latin socialis, from socius companion, ally, associate; akin to Old English secg man, companion, Latin sequi to follow sue                                                                                                                                | english words |
| q            | 249 | q:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | q                  | *ˈkyü*                                                    | the 17th letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| august       | 250 | August:1                                                                                            | noun                            | au\*gust           | *ˈȯ-gəst*                                                 | the eighth month of the Gregorian calendar.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English, from Old English, from Latin Augustus, from Augustus Caesar                                                                                                                                                                                                    | english words |
| quote        | 251 | quote:1                                                                                             | verb                            | quote              | *ˈkwōt ˈkōt*                                              | to speak or write (a passage) from another usually with credit acknowledgment.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Medieval Latin quotare to mark the number of, number references, from Latin quotus of what number or quantity, from quot how many, (as) many as; akin to Latin qui who who                                                                                                     | english words |
| language     | 252 | language:1                                                                                          | noun                            | lan\*guage         | *ˈlaŋ-gwij, -wij*                                         | the words, their pronunciation, and the methods of combining them used and understood by a community.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Anglo-French langage, from lange, langue tongue, language, from Latin lingua tongue                                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| story        | 253 | story:- history 1                                                                                   | noun                            | sto\*ry            | *ˈstȯr-ē*                                                 | \- history 1 .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English storie, from Anglo-French estoire, estorie, from Latin historia history                                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| sell         | 254 | sell:1                                                                                              | verb                            |                    | *ˈsel*                                                    | to deliver or give up in violation of duty, trust, or loyalty and especially for personal gain :betrayout.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English, from Old English sellan; akin to Old High German sellen to sell, Greek helein to take                                                                                                                                                                          | english words |
| options      | 255 | option:1                                                                                            | noun                            | option             | *ˈäp-shən*                                                | an act of choosing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | French, from Latin option-, optio free choice; akin to Latin optare to choose                                                                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| experience   | 256 | experience:1                                                                                        | noun                            |                    | *ik-ˈspir-ē-ən(t)s*                                       | direct observation of or participation in events as a basis of knowledge.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin experientia act of trying, from experient-, experiens, present participle of experiri to try, from ex- + -periri (akin to periculum attempt) fear                                                                                | english words |
| rates        | 257 | rate:1                                                                                              | verb                            | rate               | *ˈrāt*                                                    | to rebuke angrily or violently.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| create       | 258 | create:1                                                                                            | verb                            | cre\*ate           | *krē-ˈāt, ˈkrē-ˌ*                                         | to bring into existence.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Latin creatus, past participle of creare; akin to Latin crescere to grow crescent                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| key          | 259 | key:1                                                                                               | noun                            | key                | *ˈkē*                                                     | a usually metal instrument by which the bolt of a lock is turned.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, from Old English cǣg; akin to OldFrisian kēi key                                                                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| body         | 260 | body:1                                                                                              | noun                            | body               | *ˈbä-dē*                                                  | the main part of a plant or animal body especially as distinguished from limbs and head :trunk.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English, from Old English bodig; akin to Old High German boteh corpse                                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| young        | 261 | young:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | young              | *ˈyəŋ*                                                    | being in the first or an early stage of life, growth, or development.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English yong, from Old English geong; akin to Old High German jung young, Latin juvenis                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| america      | 262 | America:1                                                                                           | geographical name               | Amer\*i\*ca        | *ə-ˈmer-ə-kə, -ˈme-rə-*                                   | either continent (North America or S. America) of the western hemisphere.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| important    | 263 | important:1                                                                                         | adjective                       | im\*por\*tant      | *im-ˈpȯr-tᵊnt, -tənt, -dənt*                              | marked by or indicative of significant worth or consequence :valuable in content or relationship.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English importante, from Medieval Latin important-, importans, present participle of importare to signify import                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| field        | 264 | field:1                                                                                             | noun                            | field              | *ˈfēld*                                                   | an open land area free of woods and buildings.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Old English feld; akin to Old High German feld field, Old English flōr floor floor                                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| few          | 265 | few:1                                                                                               | pronoun, plural in construction | few                | *ˈfyü*                                                    | not many persons or things.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English fewe, pron. & adjective, from Old English fēawa; akin to Old High German fō little, Latin paucus little, pauper poor, Greek paid-, pais child, Sanskrit putra son                                                                                               | english words |
| east         | 266 | east:1                                                                                              | adverb                          | east               | *ˈēst*                                                    | to, toward, or in the east.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English est, from Old English ēast; akin to Old High German ōstar to the east, Latin aurora dawn, Greek ēōs, heōs                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| paper        | 267 | paper:1                                                                                             | noun                            | pa\*per            | *ˈpā-pər*                                                 | a felted sheet of usually vegetable fibers laid down on a fine screen from a water suspension.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English papir, from Anglo-French, from Latin papyrus papyrus, paper, from Greek papyros papyrus                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| single       | 268 | single:1                                                                                            | adjective                       | sin\*gle           | *ˈsiŋ-gəl*                                                | not married.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English sengle, from Anglo-French, from Latin singulus one only; akin to Latin sem- one same                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| ii           | 269 | Charles I:1                                                                                         | biographical name               | Charles I          |                                                           | 823–877 the Bald king of France as Charles I (840–877); Holy Rom. emp. as Charles II (875–877).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| age          | 270 | age:1                                                                                               | noun                            |                    | *ˈāj*                                                     | the time of life at which some particular qualification, power, or capacity arises or rests; specifically majority.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Anglo-French aage, age, from Vulgar Latin \*aetaticum, from Latin aetat-, aetas, from aevum lifetime aye                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| activities   | 271 | activity:1                                                                                          | noun                            |                    | *ak-ˈti-və-tē*                                            | the quality or state of being active.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| club         | 272 | club:1                                                                                              | noun                            | club               | *ˈkləb*                                                   | a heavy usually tapering staff especially of wood wielded as a weapon.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English clubbe, from Old Norse klubba; akin to Old High German kolbo club                                                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| example      | 273 | <example:1>                                                                                         | noun                            | ex\*am\*ple        | *ig-ˈzam-pəl*                                             | one that serves as a pattern to be imitated or not to be imitated.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English, from Anglo-French essample, example, from Latin exemplum, from eximere to take out, from ex- + emere to take redeem                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| girls        | 274 | girl:1                                                                                              | noun                            |                    | *ˈgər(-ə)l*                                               | a female child from birth to adulthood.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English gurle, girle young person of either sex                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| additional   | 275 | additional:1                                                                                        | adjective                       | ad\*di\*tion\*al   | *-ˈdish-nəl, -ˈdi-shə-nᵊl*                                | existing by way of addition :added.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| password     | 276 | password:1                                                                                          | noun                            | pass\*word         | *ˈpas-ˌwərd*                                              | something that enables one to pass or gain admission: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| z            | 277 | z:1                                                                                                 | noun                            | z                  | *ˈzē, ˈzed, ˈi-zərd*                                      | the 26th and last letter of the English alphabet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| latest       | 278 | latest:1                                                                                            | adjective                       | lat\*est           |                                                           | last.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| something    | 279 | something:1                                                                                         | pronoun                         | some\*thing        | *ˈsəm(p)-thiŋ, ˈsəm-pᵊm*                                  | some indeterminate or unspecified thing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| road         | 280 | road:1                                                                                              | noun                            | road               | *ˈrōd*                                                    | roadstead.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English rode, from Old English rād ride, journey; akin to Old English rīdan to ride                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| gift         | 281 | gift:1                                                                                              | noun                            | gift               | *ˈgift*                                                   | a notable capacity, talent, or endowment.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English, from Old Norse, something given, talent; akin to Old English giefan to give                                                                                                                                                                                    | english words |
| question     | 282 | question:1                                                                                          | noun                            | ques\*tion         | *ˈkwes-chən, ˈkwesh-*                                     | an interrogative expression often used to test knowledge.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin quaestion-, quaestio, from quaerere to seek, ask                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| changes      | 283 | change:1                                                                                            | verb                            | change             | *ˈchānj*                                                  | to make different in some particular :alter.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Anglo-French changer, from Latin cambiare to exchange, probably of Celtic origin; akin to Old Irish camm crooked                                                                                                                                          | english words |
| night        | 284 | night:1                                                                                             | noun                            | night              | *ˈnīt*                                                    | the time from dusk to dawn when no sunlight is visible.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Old English niht; akin to Old High German naht night, Latin noct-, nox, Greek nykt-, nyx                                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| ca           | 285 | Ca:1                                                                                                | symbol                          | ca                 |                                                           | calcium.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| hard         | 286 | hard:1                                                                                              | adjective                       | hard               | *ˈhärd*                                                   | not easily penetrated :not easily yielding to pressure.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, from Old English heard; akin to Old High German hart hard, Greek kratos strength                                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| texas        | 287 | texas:1                                                                                             | noun                            | tex\*as            | *ˈtek-səs, -siz*                                          | a structure on the awning deck of a steamer that contains the officers' cabins and has the pilothouse in front or on top.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Texas, state of United States; from the naming of cabins on Mississippi steamboats after states, the officers' cabins being the largest                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| oct          | 288 | Oct:1                                                                                               | abbreviation                    |                    |                                                           | October.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| pay          | 289 | pay:1                                                                                               | verb                            |                    | *ˈpā*                                                     | to make due return to for services rendered or property delivered.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English, from Anglo-French paier, from Latin pacare to pacify, from pac-, pax peace                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| four         | 290 | four:1                                                                                              | noun                            | four               | *fȯr*                                                     | see number table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, from four adjective, from Old English fēower; akin to Old High German fior four, Latin quattuor, Greek tessares, tettares                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| poker        | 291 | poker:1                                                                                             | noun                            | pok\*er            | *ˈpō-kər*                                                 | one that pokes; especially a metal rod for stirring a fire.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | probably modification of French poque, a card game similar to poker                                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| status       | 292 | status:1                                                                                            | noun                            | sta\*tus           | *ˈstā-təs, ˈsta-*                                         | position or rank in relation to others.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Latin state                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | english words |
| browse       | 293 | browse:1                                                                                            | verb                            | browse             | *ˈbrau̇z*                                                  | to consume as browse.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English brouusen, probably from Anglo-French brouts                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| issue        | 294 | issue:1                                                                                             | noun                            | is\*sue            | *ˈi-(ˌ)shü, ˈi-shə, ˈis-(ˌ)yü*                            | proceeds from a source of revenue (as an estate).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, exit, proceeds, from Anglo-French, from issir to come out, go out, from Latin exire to go out, from ex- + ire to go; akin to Gothic iddja he went, Greek ienai to go, Sanskrit eti he goes                                                                     | english words |
| range        | 295 | range:1                                                                                             | noun                            | range              | *ˈrānj*                                                   | a series of things in a line :row.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English, row of persons, from Anglo-French range, renge, from renger to range                                                                                                                                                                                           | english words |
| building     | 296 | building:1                                                                                          | noun                            | build\*ing         | *ˈbil-diŋ*                                                | a usually roofed and walled structure built for permanent use (as for a dwelling).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| seller       | 297 | seller:1                                                                                            | noun                            | sell\*er           | *ˈse-lər*                                                 | one that offers for sale.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| court        | 298 | court:1                                                                                             | noun                            | court              | *ˈkȯrt*                                                   | the residence or establishment of a sovereign or similar dignitary.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Middle English, from Anglo-French curt, court, from Latin cohort-, cohors enclosure, group, retinue, cohort, from co- + -hort-, -hors (akin to hortus garden) yard                                                                                                             | english words |
| february     | 299 | February:1                                                                                          | noun                            |                    | *ˈfe-b(y)ə-ˌwer-ē, ˈfe-brə-*                              | the second month of the Gregorian calendar.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Middle English Februarie, from Old English Februarius, from Latin, from Februa, plural, feast of purification                                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| always       | 300 | always:1                                                                                            | adverb                          | al\*ways           | *ˈȯl-wēz, -wəz, -(ˌ)wāz ˈȯ-*                              | at all times :invariably.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Middle English alwayes, from alwey                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| result       | 301 | result:1                                                                                            | verb                            | re\*sult           | *ri-ˈzəlt*                                                | to proceed or arise as a consequence, effect, or conclusion.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Middle English, from Medieval Latin resultare, from Latin, to rebound, from re- + saltare to leap saltation                                                                                                                                                                    | english words |
| audio        | 302 | audio:1                                                                                             | adjective                       |                    | *ˈȯ-dē-ˌō*                                                | of or relating to acoustic, mechanical, or electrical frequencies corresponding to normally audible sound waves which are of frequencies approximately from 15 to 20,000 hertz.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | audio-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| light        | 303 | light:1                                                                                             | noun                            |                    | *ˈlīt*                                                    | something that makes vision possible.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Old English lēoht; akin to Old High German lioht light, Latin luc-, lux light, lucēre to shine, Greek leukos white                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| write        | 304 | write:1                                                                                             | verb                            | write              | *ˈrīt*                                                    | to form (as characters or symbols) on a surface with an instrument (as a pen).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Old English wrītan to scratch, draw, inscribe; akin to Old High German rīzan to tear and perhaps to Greek rhinē file, rasp                                                                                                                                | english words |
| war          | 305 | war:1                                                                                               | noun                            | war                | *ˈwȯr*                                                    | a state of usually open and declared armed hostile conflict between states or nations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English werre, from Anglo-French werre, guerre, of Germanic origin; akin to Old High German werra strife; akin to Old High German werran to confuse                                                                                                                     | english words |
| nov          | 306 | Nov:1                                                                                               | abbreviation                    |                    |                                                           | November.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| offer        | 307 | offer:1                                                                                             | verb                            | of\*fer            | *ˈȯ-fər, ˈä-*                                             | to present as an act of worship or devotion :sacrifice.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English offren, in sense 1, from Old English offrian, from Late Latin offerre, from Latin, to present, tender, from ob- toward + ferre to carry; in other senses, from Anglo-French offrir, from Latin offerre bear                                                     | english words |
| blue         | 308 | blue:1                                                                                              | adjective                       | blue               | *ˈblü*                                                    | of the color blue.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English, from Anglo-French blef, blew, of Germanic origin; akin to Old High German blāo blue; akin to Latin flavus yellow                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| groups       | 309 | group:1                                                                                             | noun                            | group              | *ˈgrüp*                                                   | two or more figures forming a complete unit in a composition.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | French groupe, from Italian gruppo, by-form of groppo knot, tangle, of Germanic origin; akin to Old High German kropf craw crop                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| al           | 310 | AL:1                                                                                                | abbreviation                    | -al                |                                                           | Alabama.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| easy         | 311 | easy:1                                                                                              | adjective                       | easy               | *ˈē-zē*                                                   | causing or involving little difficulty or discomfort.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English esy, from Anglo-French eisé, aasié, past participle of eiser, aaisier to ease, from a- ad- (from Latin ad-) + eise ease                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| given        | 312 | given:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | giv\*en            | *ˈgi-vən*                                                 | prone, disposed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| files        | 313 | <file:1>                                                                                            | noun                            | file               |                                                           | powdered young leaves of sassafras used to thicken soups or stews.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Louisiana French, from French, past participle of filer to twist, spin                                                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| event        | 314 | event:1                                                                                             | noun                            | event              | *i-ˈvent*                                                 | outcome.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle French or Latin; Middle French, from Latin eventus, from evenire to happen, from e- + venire to come come                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| release      | 315 | release:1                                                                                           | verb                            | re\*lease          | *ri-ˈlēs*                                                 | to set free from restraint, confinement, or servitude; also to let go :dismiss.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English relesen, from Anglo-French relesser, from Latin relaxare to relax                                                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| analysis     | 316 | analysis:1                                                                                          | noun                            |                    | *ə-ˈna-lə-səs*                                            | separation of a whole into its component parts.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | New Latin, from Greek, from analyein to break up, from ana- + lyein to loosen lose                                                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| request      | 317 | request:1                                                                                           | noun                            | re\*quest          | *ri-ˈkwest*                                               | the act or an instance of asking for something.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English requeste, from Anglo-French, from Vulgar Latin \*requaesta, from feminine of requaestus, past participle of requaerere to require                                                                                                                               | english words |
| fax          | 318 | <fax:1>                                                                                             | noun                            | fax                | *ˈfaks*                                                   | facsimile 2.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | by shortening & alteration                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| china        | 319 | china:1                                                                                             | noun                            | chi\*na            | *ˈchī-nə*                                                 | porcelain; also vitreous porcelain wares (as dishes, vases, or ornaments) for domestic use.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Persian chīnī Chinese porcelain                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| making       | 320 | making:1                                                                                            | noun                            |                    |                                                           | the act or process of forming, causing, doing, or coming into being.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Old English macung, from macian to make                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | english words |
| picture      | 321 | picture:1                                                                                           | noun                            | pic\*ture          | *ˈpik-chər*                                               | a design or representation made by various means (as painting, drawing, or photography).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Latin pictura, from pictus, past participle of pingere to paint paint                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| needs        | 322 | needs:1                                                                                             | adverb                          | needs              | *ˈnēdz*                                                   | of necessity :necessarily.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English nedes, from Old English nēdes, from genitive of nēd need                                                                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| possible     | 323 | possible:1                                                                                          | adjective                       | pos\*si\*ble       | *ˈpä-sə-bəl*                                              | being within the limits of ability, capacity, or realization.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin possibilis, from posse to be able, from potis, pote able + esse to be potent, is                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| might        | 324 | might:1                                                                                             | verbal auxiliary                | might              | *ˈmīt*                                                    | used in auxiliary function to express permission, liberty, probability, possibility in the pastor a present condition contrary to factor less probability or possibility than mayor as a polite alternative to mayor to ought or should.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Middle English, from Old English meahte, mihte; akin to Old High German mahta, mohta could                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| professional | 325 | professional:1                                                                                      | adjective                       | pro\*fes\*sion\*al | *prə-ˈfesh-nəl, -ˈfe-shə-nᵊl*                             | of, relating to, or characteristic of a profession.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| yet          | 326 | yet:1                                                                                               | adverb                          | yet                | *ˈyet*                                                    | in addition :besides.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Middle English, from Old English gīet; akin to OldFrisian ieta yet                                                                                                                                                                                                             | english words |
| month        | 327 | month:1                                                                                             | noun                            | month              | *ˈmən(t)th*                                               | a measure of time corresponding nearly to the period of the moon's revolution and amounting to approximately 4 weeks or 30 days or 1/12 of a year.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English, from Old English mōnath; akin to Old High German mānōd month, Old English mōna moon                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| major        | 328 | major:1                                                                                             | adjective                       | ma\*jor            | *ˈmā-jər*                                                 | greater in dignity, rank, importance, or interest.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English maiour, from Latin major, comparative of magnus great, large much                                                                                                                                                                                               | english words |
| star         | 329 | star:1                                                                                              | noun                            | star               | *ˈstär*                                                   | a natural luminous body visible in the sky especially at night.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Middle English sterre, from Old English steorra; akin to Old High German sterno star, Latin stella, Greek astēr, astron                                                                                                                                                        | english words |
| areas        | 330 | area:1                                                                                              | noun                            |                    | *ˈer-ē-ə, ˈā-rē-ə*                                        | a level piece of ground.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Latin, open space, threshing floor; perhaps akin to Latin arēre to be dry arid                                                                                                                                                                                                 | english words |
| future       | 331 | future:1                                                                                            | adjective                       | fu\*ture           | *ˈfyü-chər*                                               | that is to be; specifically existing after death.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English, from Anglo-French & Latin; Anglo-French, from Latin futurus about to be be                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| space        | 332 | space:1                                                                                             | noun                            | space              | *ˈspās*                                                   | a period of time; also its duration.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Middle English, from Anglo-French espace, space, from Latin spatium area, room, interval of space or time                                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| committee    | 333 | committee:1                                                                                         | noun                            |                    | *kə-ˈmi-tē, ˌkä-mi-ˈtē*                                   | a person to whom a charge or trust is committed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| hand         | 334 | hand:1                                                                                              | noun                            | hand               | *ˈhand*                                                   | the terminal part of the vertebrate forelimb when modified (as in humans) as a grasping organ.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old High German hant hand                                                                                                                                                                                                            | english words |
| sun          | 335 | sun:1                                                                                               | noun                            | sun                | *ˈsən*                                                    | the luminous celestial body around which the earth and other planets revolve, from which they receive heat and light, which is composed mainly of hydrogen and helium, and which has a mean distance from earth of about 93,000,000 miles (150,000,000 kilometers), a linear diameter of 864,000 miles (1,390,000 kilometers), and a mass 332,000 times greater than earth.                                                                                                            | Middle English sunne, from Old English; akin to Old High German sunna sun, Latin sol solar                                                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| cards        | 336 | card:1                                                                                              | verb                            | card               | *ˈkärd*                                                   | to cleanse, disentangle, and collect together (as fibers) by the use of cards preparatory to spinning.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English carde, from Medieval Latin cardus, carduus, thistle, carding instrument, from Latin carduus thistle chard                                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| problems     | 337 | problem:1                                                                                           | noun                            | prob\*lem          | *ˈprä-bləm, -bᵊm, -ˌblem*                                 | a question raised for inquiry, consideration, or solution.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English probleme, from Latin problema, from Greek problēma, literally, obstacle, from proballein to throw forward, from pro- forward + ballein to throw pro-, devil                                                                                                     | english words |
| london       | 338 | London:1                                                                                            | biographical name               | Lon\*don           | *ˈlən-dən*                                                | John Griffith 1876–1916 Jack London Am. writer.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| washington   | 339 | Washington:1                                                                                        | biographical name               | Wash\*ing\*ton     | *ˈwȯ-shiŋ-tən, ˈwä-, ˈwȯr- ˈwär-*                         | Book\*er bixwas02.wavˈbu̇-kər Tal\*ia\*ferro bixwas03.wavˈtä-lə-vər—sic 1856–1915 Am. educ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| meeting      | 340 | meeting:1                                                                                           | noun                            | meet\*ing          |                                                           | an act or process of coming together: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| rss          | 341 | RSS:1                                                                                               | noun                            |                    | *ˌär-ˌes-ˈes*                                             | a computer document format that enables updates to Web sites to be easily distributed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | RDF (Resource Description Framework) Site Summary (later explained by its developers as Rich Site Summary and Really Simple Syndication)                                                                                                                                       | english words |
| become       | 342 | become:1                                                                                            | verb                            | be\*come           | *bi-ˈkəm, bē-*                                            | to come into existence.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Middle English, to come to, become, from Old English becuman, from be- + cuman to come                                                                                                                                                                                         | english words |
| interest     | 343 | interest:1                                                                                          | noun                            | in\*ter\*est       | *ˈin-t(ə-)rəst; ˈin-tə-ˌrest, -ˌtrest; ˈin-tərst*         | right, title, or legal share in something.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English, probably alteration of earlier interesse, from Anglo-French & Medieval Latin; Anglo-French, from Medieval Latin, from Latin, to be between, make a difference, concern, from inter- + esse to be is                                                            | english words |
| id           | 344 | ID:1                                                                                                | verb                            | id                 | *ˈī-ˈdē*                                                  | identify.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | New Latin, from Latin, it                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| child        | 345 | child:1                                                                                             | noun                            | child              | *ˈchī(-ə)ld*                                              | an unborn or recently born person.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Middle English, from Old English cild; akin to Gothic kilthei womb, and perhaps to Sanskrit jaṭhara belly                                                                                                                                                                      | english words |
| keep         | 346 | keep:1                                                                                              | verb                            |                    | *ˈkēp*                                                    | to take notice of by appropriate conduct :fulfill: as.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Middle English kepen, from Old English cēpan; perhaps akin to Old High German chapfēn to look                                                                                                                                                                                  | english words |
| enter        | 347 | enter:1                                                                                             | verb                            | en\*ter            | *ˈen-tər*                                                 | to go or come in.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Middle English entren, from Anglo-French entrer, from Latin intrare, from intra within; akin to Latin inter between inter-                                                                                                                                                     | english words |
| california   | 348 | California:1                                                                                        | geographical name               | Cal\*i\*for\*nia   | *ˌka-lə-ˈfȯr-nyə*                                         | state SW United States ✽ Sacramento area 158,706 square miles (411,048 square kilometers), pop 33,871,648.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| porn         | 349 | porn:1                                                                                              | noun                            | porn               | *ˈpȯrn*                                                   | pornography.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | english words |
| share        | 350 | share:1                                                                                             | noun                            | share              | *ˈsher*                                                   | plowshare.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Middle English schare, from Old English scear; akin to Old High German scaro plowshare, Old English scieran to cut shear                                                                                                                                                       | english words |

o
