---
title: 3.0-Software-Troubleshooting
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-57
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 3.0-Software-Troubleshooting
Problems with Microsoft Windows OS (scenario)

Many organizations utilize Microsoft Windows as their operating system of choice. This means that, as a tech, you should be able to troubleshoot issues with the Windows OS and quickly identify common problems.
Common Symptoms

It’s important to be able to recognize common symptoms in the Windows OS and quickly determine how to best resolve the issue. Let’s look at several common symptoms that we see when there is an issue with the Windows OS

Slow performance— One of the most common reports that techs hear from end users is that their computer is running “slow.” Unfortunately, this can mean different things for each user. When users tell you that their computer is running slower than normal, it’s important that you ask for specifics.

Limited Connectivity— Limited connectivity is a type of network issue. Essentially, the computer is able to see the network, and even partially connect to it, but there is an issue with that connection. For example, if a computer connects to a network but doesn’t receive IP address information from a DHCP server, it will show the limited connectivity message.

Failure to boot— A failure to boot occurs when the computer is unable to load the operating system. One type of failure to boot is “No OS found.”

No OS found— No OS found is a specific type of failure to boot. No OS found occurs when the computer is unable to locate OS files. This can be either because the storage devices do not contain any OS files, or the boot configuration loader is pointing to the wrong partition.

Application crashes— It is not uncommon for applications to crash on a computer and there are many different causes for these crashes. When an application crashes, the user may see the application close unexpectedly or simply “freeze.” If the application freezes rather than closes when it crashes, it may be necessary to end the task in Task Manager.

Blue screens— A blue screen, or more commonly known as BSOD (blue screen of death), is a proprietary crash screen on Windows OS. A BSOD that occurs during the initial boot sequence could be caused by bad hardware, drivers and/or bad applications. Since a BSOD can be caused by many different things, technicians will need to do research on the specific error message given during a BSOD.

*Black screens— Black screens are similar to blue screens, but they are usually caused by an error at POST. When a black screen occurs, the best course of action is typically to attempt to reboot into Safe Mode or last known good configuration.

Printing issues— Printers are a great resource for users, but they don’t come without their own set of problems. Printing issues can range from not being able to print at all to printing only gibberish. Printing problems can be caused by driver issues, network issues, and even physical hardware issues.

Services fail to start— Services are the backbone of our computer. Sometimes, necessary services do not start when the computer loads. Services can be stopped, started, and restarted in the services menu and can be also be viewed from Task Manager. When a service associated with a specific application won’t start, it might be time to consider reinstalling the application.

Slow boot-up— If a system is taking longer than normal to boot, this could be caused by a myriad of circumstances. The hard drive may be experiencing errors. In this case, running a defrag could be beneficial. Slow boot-ups can also be a symptom of faulty or outdated hardware.

Slow profile load— A profile that takes a long time to load can be a result of having too many applications load at startup. It could also be a result of insufficient hard drive space or memory.
Common Solutions

In the above section, we have discussed some of the common symptoms of computer issues. Below, let’s look at some common solutions to these problems.

Defragment the hard drive— Disks can become fragmented as files are created, deleted, and modified over time. Defrag realigns all the file fragments into contiguous files on the drive. This not only speeds up disk access, but also eliminates wear on the drive. Keep in mind that solid-state drives should never be defragmented.

Reboot— The phrase “Have you tried rebooting it?” is a common joke among IT folks because this is typically the first question that must be asked when a problem arises. However, rebooting should be taken seriously because many issues can be solved with a simple reboot. Before diving into any more complicated troubleshooting, a reboot should always be one of the first steps in troubleshooting.

Kill tasks— If an application freezes or will not close, ending the task from Task Manager is often a quick way to resolve these issues. To end a task, launch Task Manager and locate the application in question. When the application is located, click “End Task”.

Restart services— Services are related to both system functions and specific applications. If an application or program isn’t running as it should, the service should be restarted to see if that helps. To restart a service, open Services.msc. In the services menu, search for the service in question. In the left panel, there should be an option to restart the service.

Update network settings— Network issues can arise when a device is given the same IP addresses as another device by accident, or when something in the network has changed (such as the gateway) and the devices haven’t been updated. When a device is having network connectivity issues, technicians must check the network settings and update as needed.

Reimage/reload OS— In some extreme cases, it may be easier to simply uninstall and reload the operating system. Windows has options so that files can be saved even when a refresh of the OS is needed.

Roll back updates— Although updates are meant to improve computers, sometimes they can corrupt files and cause issues. In these cases, it’s necessary to roll back the updates and take your computer to a previous state before the updates were installed.

Roll back device drivers— In the same way that updates must sometimes be rolled back, device drivers may require this also. If the computer isn’t behaving as it should after a driver has been updated or installed, it is best to roll the device driver back.

Apply updates— When a device is not acting as it should, it’s important to check to see if the latest updates have been installed. Updates are often put out to resolve security or performance issues.

Repair application— Applications can be repaired from the Add or Remove Programs menu. Locate the program in question, and instead of selecting Uninstall, select Modify. This will usually give you the option to repair the program. This can be especially useful with regard to Microsoft Office products.

Update boot order— At times, it is necessary to boot to a different location than the default. The boot order can be changed in the BIOS of the device.

Disable Windows services/applications— If a windows service or application seems to be causing issues on the device, it’s best to disable it while troubleshooting further. To disable a service, navigate to the Services.msc program, locate the service in question and double-click on it. In the menu for that service, you can choose the disable option.

Disable application startup— If an application is causing the startup to be slower than normal, it can be disabled from the startup programs. In Windows 10, open Task Manager, and the Startup tab is displayed. This shows all of the startup programs and allows a user to disable a program from startup.

Safe boot— Booting a Windows computer into Safe Mode or Safe Mode with Networking will boot the computer with only the necessary configuration. Safe Mode boots the system with only drivers absolutely necessary to do so. If you suspect problems with drivers, or need to modify system settings that are otherwise unavailable due to booting issues, Safe Mode can help. To enter Safe Mode, repeatedly press F8 during initial boot.

Rebuild Windows profiles— If there is only an issue with a specific Windows profile, it may not be necessary to rebuild the entire computer operating system; instead, rebuilding that user’s profile could do the trick. This is because profiles can become corrupted.
PC Security Issues (scenario)

Some computer issues have to do with security. To address them, you should spot the signs of particular problems and know what tools are available to render a solution.
Pop-ups

Pop-ups occur from a variety of reasons. While in a browser, a pop-up may expose you to malware if you choose to click on the pop-up. Pop-ups that occur randomly should be addressed with one of the available malware cleaners.
Browser Redirection

If you find your browser has been changed, or that the results of a search come from a third-party site, it is likely that your browser has been redirected by malware. An anti-malware cleaner may or may not address the issue. You may want to restore your system from a known good backup.
Security Alerts

While browsing on the Internet, you may receive a security alert. This may tell you that the site is not secure or the site certificate is not trusted. Your browser will give you an indication of the problem and you need to determine the best course of action.
Slow Performance

While slow system performance could be the cause of faulty hardware or an operating system problem, it could also be caused by a security issue. If a system is infected with malware, system performance may be slowed considerably.
Internet Connectivity Issues

Internet connectivity issues are not always the result of networking. Malware-infected systems may prevent you from browsing to certain sites or you may be redirected somewhere else altogether.
PC/OS Lockup

Malware can attack the operating system in a number of ways, even to the point where the system will no longer boot. A malware cleaner may address the issue or you may have to restore to a known good backup. You may be able to find the root cause by accessing the Event Viewer.
Application Crash

Application crashes can be a sign that the computer has been infected with malware. Malware may cause applications to crash or you may get a message that says the program is no longer working.
OS Update Failures

If an operating system won’t install updates, this could be a symptom of a virus. Malware can interfere with normal operating system updates.
Rogue Antivirus

Antivirus should only be installed from trusted antivirus websites and vendors. Attackers can create their malware to look like antivirus and when the user installs it, they are actually infecting the machine with a virus.
Spam

Spam is unsolicited email messages, usually advertising a product, but may actually be a phishing attack. A good spam filter is one way to control this.
Renamed System Files

Malware can attack an operating system by simply renaming a system file, rendering it useless.
Disappearing Files

Malware can cause files to disappear by deleting the file or simply renaming it.
File Permission Changes

File permissions and ownership can be modified by malware.
Hijacked Email

One of the results of spam is to make a user the author of yet more spam. The unknown user is now being hacked to send out spam to others.

Responses from users regarding email— If a user is receiving numerous responses from other users regarding email he supposedly sent, but doesn’t recognize, this is a sign that the account has been hijacked. The hijacker will probably have deleted anything from the Sent folder as well to cover their tracks.

Automated replies from unknown sent email— Another sign of a hijacked email is receiving a lot of automated replies to an email that the user doesn’t recognize sending. Because spam is often sent out in a large bulk quantity, it’s likely that there will be automated replies sent back.
Access Denied

Malware can change the permissions of files, preventing access to the rightful user.
Invalid Certificate (Trusted Root CA)

If you are browsing the Internet and receive a security alert that the site has an invalid certificate, it could indicate the site should be avoided or possibly that there is something as simple as an incorrect PC clock setting because the site certificate date is too far from your PC’s date.
System/Application Log Errors

The System and Application logs in the Event Viewer can show a user what has been occurring on their device. If there are a lot of unknown errors or log in attempts, this could be due to an unauthorized user or attacker attempting to gain access to the system.



Malware Removal (scenario)

Malware can spread rapidly and cause severe damage. Discovering malware is just the first step. It’s vital that you are able to remove the malware quickly without causing further damage. Be sure to follow these steps in order.
1. Identify and research malware symptoms.

Malware is not often as obvious as strange error messages and odd security warnings. It may be as subtle as a slight slowdown of the system or unexplained files appearing. There are plenty of sites that are dedicated to describing malware symptoms so thorough research should be done.
2. Quarantine the infected systems.

Any system suspected of being infected by malware should immediately be quarantined. This is so that the malware doesn’t spread across the network to other devices. The easiest way to quarantine a device is to simply pull out the network cord or disconnect it from Wi-Fi. Maintain all the files on the machine and don’t attempt to move them to another system.
3. Disable System Restore (in Windows).

The next step after quarantine would be to disable system restore in Windows. You do not want the virus to infect your restore points.
4. Remediate the infected systems.

When you have identified that type of malware and ensured that it can’t spread to other devices, remediation can begin.

a. Update the anti-malware software.— The first step would be to ensure you have an updated anti-virus application with a new engine and signature files.

b. Scan and use removal techniques (Safe Mode, pre-installation environment).— Restart the system in Safe Mode, pre-installation environment, and run a virus scan. While some viruses are more complicated and may require further remediation techniques, this will be able to remove most basic malware infections.
5. Schedule scans and run updates.

When a virus is removed, set the anti-virus to automatically update the signature files and schedule scans to run in order to prevent future infections.
6. Enable System Restore and create a restore point (in Windows).

The next step is to re-enable system restore and create Windows restore points.
7. Educate the end user.

Users are the last line of defense when it comes to computer security. This is because there is no antivirus or spam filter program that is 100% accurate. Even with these items in place, the user should be educated on proper email and Internet usage to avoid getting a malware infection on his or her device.
Mobile Application Problems (scenario)

Portable devices are becoming more common in the workplace, so you will need to become familiar with the following items related to support of these devices.
Dim Display

For mobile devices with dim displays, try to adjust the screen brightness, assuming you can see the screen in a darkened room. For Android devices, go to Settings > Display > Brightness Level. For Apple IOS, go to Settings > Displays and Brightness. If that doesn’t work, the entire display must be replaced.
Intermittent Wireless

Determine the distance to the wireless access point and determine if that can be modified. Verify Wi-Fi connections on the device. If a mobile device can connect to all other Wi-Fi networks except a specific one, the issue may lie with the Wi-Fi access point rather than the device itself.
No Wireless Connectivity

Verify the Wi-Fi settings are correct. Perform a hard reset on the specific device, if necessary.
No Bluetooth Connectivity

Check bluetooth configuration parameters: unpair and pair the device. Perform a hard reset on the specific device, if necessary.
Cannot Broadcast to External Monitor

Devices vary, so check the setup for the remote device. Verify network functionality: Are they on the same subnet?
Touchscreen Non-Responsive

If the device is completely blank, you may be able to get the power option to appear on an Apple device by holding down the Power button, then power off. Hold the Power button and the Home button simultaneously for 10 seconds to perform a hard reset of the device.

For most Android devices, hold the Volume Up button and press and hold the Power button until the screen becomes black. However, note that, depending on the make and model of the hardware, you may also be able to either simply either hold the Power button, or hold the Power button and the Volume Down button. After 1 minute or so, power the device back on using the Power button.
Apps Not Loading

Reboot the device and retry the application. Also, try to perform a hard reset.

If it is just one app that will not load, try to reinstall that app.
Slow Performance

You may have to administratively stop the application in question, then restart. On an iPhone, double-tap home and slide the application out of memory. On an iPhone 10 or later (which no longer has a home button from the Home screen), swipe up from the bottom of the screen and pause slightly in the middle of the screen. Next swipe right or left to see the apps that you want to close. Swipe up on the preview of the app in question to close.

For Android, go to Settings > Apps, and then select the app and tap Force Stop.
Unable to Decrypt Email

To decrypt email, mobile keys are necessary. You may have to contact the sender and exchange keys.
Extremely Short Battery Life

The most likely causes of short battery life are that the battery needs to be replaced and that there are too many applications running consecutively.
Overheating

If a cell phone appears to be running too hot, check to see which application is using the most CPU. This and recharging a battery are common causes for the heat generated in a cell phone.
Frozen System

To bring a mobile device out of a frozen state, you should run a hard reset of the device. On IOS, press and hold the Home and Power buttons simultaneously for 10 seconds.

On newer iPhones that no longer have the home button (10 and above) , press and release the Volume Up button, then do the same for the Volume Down button. Next press and hold the Side button, and hold until the display suddenly shuts off, which should take about 10 seconds.

For an Android, press and hold the Power, Volume, and Home buttons simultaneously for 10 seconds.
No Sound from Speakers

Verify that the volume control is set to the proper level. Test the internal speaker by plugging in an earphone. Perform a factory reset on the device.
Inaccurate Touch Screen Response

Perform a hard reset of the device. If that fails, replace the digitizer.
System Lockout

On an Apple iOS device, ten failed login attempts will cause the device to erase everything internally. This feature is the default setting, but can be disabled. On an Android, use the Google account associated with the device to unlock the device.
App Log Errors

Although users of mobile devices do not usually see it, the mobile devices keep event logs just like computers do. The logs can show what is happening at a given time. To be able to view these logs in iOS, you would need the Xcode application. And for Android, you could use Logcat.
Mobile Application Security Problems (scenario)

The following are concerns and symptoms you need to be familiar with when dealing with mobile devices.
Signal Drop/Weak Signal

Weak signal can be caused by various factors such as interference and being too far from a cell tower.
Power Drain

Portable devices have a finite amount of available power. If you find the battery is constantly running low, you may want to see what other applications are currently running and eliminate them if not vital. Also, many portable devices have batteries that are getting old and may need to be replaced.
Slow Data Speeds

The available amount of bandwidth (speed) from a cell tower diminishes as distance is increased. To verify the theoretical maximum throughput, you may want to utilize a third-party application that will verify the amount of bandwidth available.
Unintended Wi-Fi Connection

If you feel there are unauthorized connections to your WiFi, you may want to investigate using a network analyzer to see how traffic is being handled.
Unintended Bluetooth Pairing

It is possible your Bluetooth is paired with an unintended user. Check your mobile device to see what is actually paired with you and consider disabling Bluetooth when you’re not using it.
Leaked Personal Files/Data

Mobile devices are susceptible to unauthorized access through malicious software. When infected, personal files and data can be leaked to unauthorized users. Consider an anti-malware scan for mobile devices, much the same as for PCs and laptops. If applications that were not installed appear, consider a factory reset and clean installation.
Data Transmission Over Limit

Depending on your carrier, the amount of data you use is limited by your contract. When you near the limited amount, the carrier usually notifies you. If you are unaware of this and go over your data limit, your carrier may disable data usage.
Unauthorized Account Access

Be certain you are connecting through a trusted Wi-Fi network so you know exactly what is being sent.
Unauthorized Location Tracking

To prevent unauthorized GPS tracking on a mobile phone, the user needs to disable the tracking (location) feature of the phone.
Unauthorized Camera/Microphone Activation

Cameras and microphones on mobile devices are susceptible to hacking, allowing access to these devices. To prevent this, as with most cases of mobile hacking, users need to be vigilant when it comes to acquiring applications. Only download applications from a trusted site.
High Resource Utilization

The cause of shortened battery life could be having too many applications running at any one time or an excessive amount of network utilization. Higher than normal resource utilization could also be caused by malicious software running on the device.


