'stent'

\`testa\`

"stnt" \<tstost\> {} {tesnat} stean \[\] tsetn \<\> nsetan {} tsent
(enstaan) "" \`\`

Testib tesnt netstn

## Vim Motions Anki

### Move Cursor Left

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::move cursor left}}

    Key: {{c1::s}}

2.  Extra

    Default is h

### Move Cursor Down

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::move cursor down}}

    Key: {{c1::t}}

2.  Extra

    Default is j

### Move Cursor Up

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::move cursor up}}

    Key: {{c1::n}}

2.  Extra

    Default is k

### Move Cursor Right

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::move cursor right}}

    Key: {{c1::b}}

2.  Extra

    Default is l

### Move to the first character of the line

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::move to the first character of the line}}

    Key: {{c1::0}}

### Move to the first non-blank character of the line

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::move to the first non-blank character of the line}}

    Key: {{c1::^}}

### Move to the end of the line

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::move to the end of the line}}

    Key: {{c1::\$}}

### Move forward to the given char

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::move forward to the given char}}

    Key: {{c1::f{char}}}

### Move backward to the given char

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::move backward to the given char}}

    Key: {{c1::F{char}}}

### Move forward to before the given char

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::move forward to before the given char}}

    Key: {{c1::l{char}}}

2.  Extra

    Default was t

### Move backward to before the given char

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::move backward to before the given char}}

    Key: {{c1::L{char}}}

2.  Extra

    Default was T

### Repeat f/t

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::repeat f, t, F, T}}

    Key: {{c1::;}}

### Repeat f/t opposite direction

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::repeat f, t, F, T opposite direction}}

    Key: {{c1::,}}

## Vim Text objects

### Around word

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::around word}}

    Key: {{c1::aw}}

2.  Extra

    Leading or trailing white space is included, but not counted.

### Inner word

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::inner word}}

    Key: {{c1::iw}}

2.  Extra

    white space between words is counted too.

### Around WORD

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::around WORD}}

    Key: {{c1::aW}}

2.  Extra

    Leading or trailing white space is included, but not counted.

### Inner WORD

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::inner WORD}}

    Key: {{c1::iW}}

2.  Extra

    white space between words is counted too.

### Around sentence

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::around sentence}}

    Key: {{c1::as}}

### Inner sentence

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::inner sentence}}

    Key: {{c1::is}}

### Around paragraph

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::around paragraph}}

    Key: {{c1::ap}}

### Inner paragraph

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::inner paragraph}}

    Key: {{c1::ip}}

### Around () block with char

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::around () block with char}}

    Key: {{c1::ab}}

### Inner () block with char

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::inner () block with char}}

    Key: {{c1::ib}}

### Around \[\], {}, \<\> block with char

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::around \[\], {}, \<\> block with char}}

    Key: {{c1::aB}}

### Inner \[\], {}, \<\> block with char

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::inner \[\], {}, \<\> block with char}}

    Key: {{c1::iB}}

### Around quotes

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::around quotes}}

    Key: {{c1::aq}}

### Inner quotes

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::inner quotes}}

    Key: {{c1::iq}}

### Around tag block

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::around tag block}}

    Key: {{c1::at}}

### Inner tag block

1.  Text

    Action: {{c2::inner tag block}}

    Key: {{c1::it}}

## Left-Right Motions

g\_ to the last non-blank character of the line and \[count - 1\] lines
downward inclusive. g0 or g\`\<Home\>\`

- to the first character of the screen line. exclusive motion.
- when lines wrap ('wrap' on)

g^ to the first non-blank character of the screen line. exclusive
motion.

- when lines wrap ('wrap' on)

gm

- like "", but half a screenwidth to the right (or as much as possible).

g\$ or g\`\<End\>\` to the last character of the screen line and
\[count - 1\] screen lines downward inclusive.

- when lines wrap ('wrap' on)
- \|
  - to screen column \[count\] in the current line. exclusive motion.

## Up-Down Motions

gk or g\`\<Up\>\` gj or g\`\<Down\>\`

- (\`\<minus\>\`)
- or CTRL-M or \`\<CR\>\`

\_ (\`\<underscore\`) G \`\<C-End\>\` \`\<C-Home\>\` or gg :\[range\]
{count}% :\[range\]go\[to\] \[count\] \[count go\] - :go :goto go

## unsorted

folding :previous, :next, :first, :last

floatterm text-objects ciw

Working with files

Opening files .. vim {filename} .. :e {filename} .. current buffer ..
:read or :r … :r file.txt insert the file file.txt below the cursor in
current buffer … :0r file.txt … :r!sed -n 2,8p file.txt … :r !ls ID:
1618043085078

Closing files Saving files gf - goto file gx - goto link browser undo u
:u redo ctrl-r :redo :earlier :ea :later :lat g- and g+ a buffer is the
in-memory text of a file. a window is a viewport on a buffer. a tab page
is a collection of windows. :ls to list buffer command that change text
\[operator\] (operator) and a \[motion\] \[navigation\] d2w U fix a
whole line. format for a change command is operator \[number\] motion

- operator - is what to do, such a \[d\] (d) for delete
- \[number\] - is an optional count to repeat the motion
- motion - moves over the text to opertate on

/ search forward ? search backward n next N previous C-o C-i % to find a
matching ),\], or }. substitute command :s/old/new/

- adding the g \[flag\] (:s<sub>flags</sub>) means to substitute
  globally in the line,

change all occurrences of "old" in the line.

- to change every occurrence of a character string between two lines,
  type
  - :#,#s/old/new/g
    - where \#,# are the line numbers of the range of lines where the

    substitution is to be done.
- to change every occurrence in the whole file.
  - :%s/old/new/g
- to find every occurrence in the whole file, with a prompt whether to
  substitute or not.
  - :%s/old/new/gc

To substitute new for the first old in a line type :s/old/new To
substitute new for all 'old's on a line type :s/old/new/g To substitute
phrases between two line \#'s type :#,#s/old/new/g To substitute all
occurrences in the file type :%s/old/new/g To ask for confirmation each
time add 'c' :! external command

:help insert-index :help starting.txt :help user-manual :help mapping
:help :verbose :help :noremap

Spell Check z= zg zw zug zuw

print ()

.Table Title

|           |
|-----------|
| `=`       |
| Recursive |
| :map      |
| :nmap     |
| :xmap     |
| :imap     |
| :cmap     |
| :omap     |
| ===       |

vifm <https://vifm.info/cheatsheets.shtml>

I’ve created the following list of features that I expect out of a
modern editor. Standard editor features (like syntax highlighting)
aren’t included.

Fuzzy File Finding — If you know the file name in the project, you
should be able to open it quickly (such as — two keystrokes + minimum
number of characters to unique filename). File Switching — You should be
able to see open files, and quickly switch between open files, both with
fuzzy finding and manual browsing. Linting — Code linting should be
automatic and fast, and you should be able to use a code fixer. Project
Searching — You should be able to search for an arbitrary string, search
for a symbol, find definitions, and find usages of a symbol. Code
Intellisense — Having your IDE provide relevant, seamless suggestions
and auto-completions can be a huge boost to productivity. In my opinion,
the “white whale” for most Vim users.
