---
ctime: 20221015171221
id: 6d754801-89a1-41ec-a8ce-47fbc3e24adf
mtime: 20230206181425 20221015183301
title: career
---

[careerNetworking](id:c1cbc82c-ad99-4ae6-80a8-a9d83d2e71b8)

## module 29 careers: personal branding

### 29.1 Understanding personal branding

Understanding personal branding 10 minutesEstimated completion time
Learning Objective

By the end of this lesson, you should be able to explain the purpose of
personal branding. Overview

Most employers will spend only a few seconds looking at your resume or
an online profile, so it's vital that you make a good first impression.
This module covers how to present yourself as positively as possible on
paper and online. You will learn about the importance of personal
branding and ways to effectively promote yourself to companies during
your job search. Image of a woman with a star

What is personal branding?

Jeff Bezos defines a person's brand as "what other people say about you
when you're not in the room." Think about that for a moment. How would
people describe you? Would this description differ if it came from close
friends versus from a stranger who can access only your social media
platforms?

Often, employers fit into this latter category. Because they don't know
you, they rapidly make assumptions about you based on the few resources
at their disposal: your resume and public-facing online profiles.

You might be wondering why you are learning about personal branding
right now.

It's important to start networking as soon as you can. But as soon as
you start networking, employers are going to start asking for your
resume and looking at your LinkedIn profile, so you want those materials
to be as polished as possible.

Although you'll develop your resume and LinkedIn profile throughout this
program and your career as you continue to complete projects, you can
still start outlining and refining them now. That way, they'll be ready
the moment that you need to use them, and, in the meantime, you'll look
good online.

While this module only requires you to polish your professional branding
assets, remember that the majority of employers also review your social
media profiles during the hiring process. So it's important to ensure
that all of your public-facing profiles are employer-friendly.

### 29.2 Building a resume

Building a resume 2 hoursEstimated completion time Learning Objective

By the end of this lesson, you should be able to build a resume tailored
to your experiences using a Thinkful resume template. Overview

This lesson covers how employers review resumes, what you should include
in your resume, how to tailor your resume to every job listing, and how
to make your resume attractive and easy to read. Key Terms

Applicant tracking systems Software applications that electronically
scan your resume for certain keywords and phrases to see if you're a
match for a specific job listing

Why is a resume important?

In most cases, your resume is an employer's first introduction to you.
Employers use it to determine whether or not they want to interview you
for a specific job opening at their company. And they often make this
decision in just a few seconds.

There's good news, though. There's a lot that you can do to ensure that
your resume highlights the qualifications that employers are looking
for—and showcases you in the best way possible. Applicant tracking
systems

Before you start to write your resume, it's helpful to understand what
applicant tracking systems are, how they work, and why they're
important. An applicant tracking system, or ATS, is a software
application that electronically scans your resume for certain keywords
and phrases to see if you're a match for a specific job listing.

Employers often use an ATS during the first stage of the hiring process
to filter out resumes (and, therefore, candidates) who don't seem like
they're qualified for the job that they're applying to.

As you develop your resume, you want to ensure you are using a format
that is ATS-friendly and allows the system to easily and correctly scan
your document. The templates you will use for this assessment are
designed with an ATS in mind, including clearly labeled sections,
easy-to-read fonts, reverse chronological order, and no columns or
tables. Additionally, you want to have the appropriate keywords, skills,
and phrases within your resume to align you with the job qualifications.

In the next section of this lesson, you'll learn how to effectively
tailor each section of your resume to specific job listings and
industries—ensuring that everything that you include in your resume is
intentional, relevant, and transferable. In other words, you'll write
your resume for where you want to go versus where you have been. The
skills and experience that you include should be either directly related
to the job that you're applying to or be something generic that can
still be used in the job that you're applying to. Resume components

Although every resume is different, all resumes should include most or
all of the sections described in this lesson.

Resumes are subjective and no matter who you show them to, you will get
slightly different advice about how to revise them. The areas laid out
below and the templates you will use to create your resume were
developed by certified resume writers and career development
professionals. The resume you will create using these materials is
designed to help you stand out in your job search. Contact information

Always list your contact information at the top of your resume. You
should make sure that your contact information includes the following
items:

Your first and last name

Your city and state of residence (but not your full address)

Your phone number

Your email address. This email address should be a professional one,
meaning that it includes some version of your name and has no reference
to personal or unprofessional information.

The URL to your LinkedIn, personal website or portfolio, or GitHub
profile. Note that you should always use the shortened version of the
URL; for example, use myurl.com instead of <http://myurl.com>. You can
customize your LinkedIn URL or use sites like bit.ly to help here too!

Summary

After your contact information, you should include a one- to
three-sentence summary that briefly tells employers who you are and what
skills you offer.

To create your summary, you should do the following steps:

Introduce yourself using the title of the job that you're applying to.

List your relevant qualifications and skills.

Highlight something interesting or transferable about your background.

Don't use personal pronouns (such as I, s/he/they, and my).

This focuses your resume and immediately communicates to employers that
it's worthwhile for them to continue considering you. Here's a template
in action:

Full-stack software engineer proficient in using Javascript for front
end and back end programming, React, HTML, CSS, API implementing,
Node.JS, Express, PostgreSQL, and frameworks like Bootstrap. Problem
solver with past experience developing logical and methodical solutions
to scientific problems. Has a keen eye for design, allowing for
development of visually pleasing and user-friendly website designs.
Skills

Next, include a list of 9 to 15 of your top relevant skills. Organize
them as categorized lists, like the image below: Categorized list of
skills

In addition to technical and industry-specific skills, you can consider
an Additional Skills grouping. This section would include skills like
the ones you can see below:

Additional skills

Bilingual (English and Spanish)

Customer service

Budget management

Solutions-oriented

Organization

Time management

Projects

The projects you are working on within your Thinkful program are
professional in nature and showcase the skills you are gaining in the
field. They will be added to your resume to highlight this knowledge,
assist with applicant tracking systems and help employers see your
skills in action.

As you will see in the templates provided for this assessment, you will
showcase your projects differently depending on your previous
experience. Projects can be listed under experience, in a separate
projects section, or referenced under education. However, no matter
where the projects are listed it is important to consider the below
items when highlighting your relevant project work:

The project's name: This should describe the project. For example, the
Lariat Car Rental Capstone can become Business analysis and revenue
growth models: Lariat Car Rental.

A URL for the project (if it can be viewed online): This should be
hyperlinked in the resume with a word like Portfolio or Project Link.

You should also use the STAR method to list information, which is an
abbreviation for Situation, Task, Action, and Result. You can see how
this method would work for a resume section below:

Situation: A one-line description of the project

Task: What you were charged with doing to complete the project

Action: The steps you took to complete the task, including relevant
technologies and methods

Result: The outcome of your actions (preferably with a quantifiable
impact)

Tip

Because you are still developing projects within your program, for now,
you should only add projects you have completed. You can continue to
reference this lesson to add more projects as you go! Your resume is
meant to be a living document that you are constantly updating to
reflect your skills and knowledge.

Start each bullet point with an action verb, like developed, created,
led, or managed. Visit this list of action verbs if you want to see more
examples. Tip

When you work on the resume project lesson, you will see example
Thinkful projects that you can copy and paste into your resume. They
will just need minor tweaks to mirror the work you have completed.
Experience

The purpose of your experience section is twofold. You want to show
employers two things:

That you have relevant and transferable experience

That you don't just do your job—you get results

This means that you should be strategic about what you include. You
don't need to include every past job, task, or responsibility. Rather,
you should focus on your relevant and transferable accomplishments
within your previous jobs.

For each past job, include the following information:

Your job title

The company's name

The city and state that you worked in

The dates that you worked that job

A bulleted list that highlights three or four of your accomplishments

When developing bullet points for your resume, consider the following
information:

Achievement: Focus on what you achieved, not what you were assigned. For
example, "Drove the high-quality and on-time completion of 14 software
development projects, using both predictive and adaptive development
strategies," is a lot more impressive than "Responsible for project
management."

Impact: Try to quantify your work where possible. Provide numbers to
highlight the importance of certain outcomes or tasks.

Skills: Focus on skills instead of tasks. Using strong action verbs to
start each bullet allows you to highlight different skills. If possible,
each bullet on your resume should start with a different action verb.

No personal pronouns: Avoid pronouns like I, she, he, they, me, etc.

Tense: Use present tense for current jobs and responsibilities and past
tense for former jobs and things you have already accomplished.

Education

Similar to the projects section, Thinkful will be listed slightly
differently on your resume depending on your past experience and
education. There are clear templates and guides within the assessment
section of this lesson. However, for a general guide, the education
section should include any relevant secondary education studies,
including Thinkful, other certifications, and university studies.

For each entry, include the following:

The type of degree that you earned or the major topic of your study

The school's name

The years that you studied at that school, or just the year that you
graduated

Your GPA, if it's 3.5 or above.

Any relevant awards, honors, fellowships, or classes

Because your Thinkful program is probably more relevant to potential
employers than your other education, it's okay to add some additional
details in your Thinkful entry. Here's an example of an educational
summary for your Thinkful program:

Thinkful (Online)

Certificate, UX/UI \| 03/2024 - 07/2024

Conducted user surveys and interviews; leveraged data to develop
personas, empathy and journey maps, user stories, and flows in order to
make informed design decisions.

Utilized the double-diamond process and design sprint while creating
effective case studies to showcase findings and design decisions with
clients and stakeholders.

Tip

Remember, the language above is only for the UX/UI Certificate. You'll
need to change the language above to fit the work you completed in your
certificate program. Resume style guidelines

After you finalize all of the necessary content for your resume, the
next thing that you should do is style it in a professional,
easy-to-read format. Although there is lots of room for creativity and
personal preference, below are some guidelines that you should always
follow. Length

Many employers spend less than a minute looking at your resume, so you
should keep it short. One page is ideal. (And no stretching the
margins!) If you truly need the space, you can go up to two pages—but
only if everything on the two pages is relevant.

Because employers scan resumes rather than reading them in full, you
want whatever their eyes land on to be something that makes them
interested in you. And keeping your resume one or two pages long forces
you to cut the fluff. For example, you don't need to include any work
experience from more than a decade ago. Order

The majority of people read from top to bottom, so it's important to
showcase your most attractive information first. Your resume components
should be listed reverse chronologically by section. Here's an example
of how to order your resume:

Contact information

Summary

Skills

Projects (if any)

Experience or education (whichever is going to be most attractive to
employers)

Experience or education (whichever you didn't list first)

Font

The font style and size you choose matter when developing a resume
because they help with both readability and allowing your resume to be
scanned by an ATS. Typeface

Thinkful template resumes will be done in Arial (Sans Serif) or Cambria
(Serif) font. These fonts are ATS-friendly and preferred by recruiters.
Size

The main text of your resume should be between size 10 and size 12. Size
11 font is ideal. It also can be a good option to use a font size that's
two points larger than your main text for headings; this can make your
resume easy for employers to navigate. You can also select an even
bigger font size for your name so that it stands out on your resume.
Spelling and grammar

Before submitting your resume to employers, double-, triple-, and
quadruple-check it for spelling and grammar errors. It helps to read it
aloud, have friends and family proofread it, and use free tools like
Grammarly to guarantee that your resume is error-free. Consistency

Whatever you choose to do, be consistent. One of the most common resume
pitfalls is a lack of consistency. Unfortunately, a messy resume is an
easy way to lose a job before ever being considered.

Review your typefaces, font sizes, heading styling and formatting,
margin alignments, dates, and bullet point styles. Ensure that all of
the styles you apply are consistent throughout your resume. The Thinkful
template you will use for this assessment will help with this!

Remember, the goal of your resume is to get the employer interested
enough to start a conversation with you. When the conversation starts,
your resume becomes less important; then, it's your job to speak
intelligently about your experience. Supplementary resources

List of action verbs

Resume checklist

ATS checkers for your resume: Jobscan and SkillSyncer

Grammarly

Resume template program verbiage: Use this document to copy and paste
information for your summary, skills, projects, and education section.

### 29.3 Resume project

### 29.4 Building a LinkedIn profile

Building a LinkedIn profile 2 hoursEstimated completion time Learning
Objective

By the end of this lesson, you should be able to create an effective
LinkedIn profile. Overview

LinkedIn is the world's largest professional networking platform. This
lesson covers why knowing how to use LinkedIn is important and describes
how to create a robust LinkedIn profile for your job search. What is a
LinkedIn profile?

Your LinkedIn profile is essentially an online version of your resume,
but better! It's interactive, follows a standardized format, isn't
limited to a couple of pages, and allows you to attach work samples.

95% of employers use LinkedIn as their go-to platform to source talent,
which means that it's essential for job seekers to have a complete
LinkedIn profile. Additionally, having a complete profile makes you 40
times more likely to receive job opportunities.

Once you have a profile, you can use LinkedIn to do the following
job-searching tasks:

Find and apply to job listings

Grow your professional network

Find someone to conduct an informational interview with

Share and find work-related news and tips

Share your professional history and projects with employers

Get recruited

LinkedIn profile components

Happily, because LinkedIn profiles are similar to resumes, you're able
to copy and paste a lot of the information that's on your resume, which
makes creating a profile easy. There are, however, some additional
components and considerations, which you can review below. Tip

Before you start making lots of updates to your profile, it's smart to
turn off your activity broadcast so that LinkedIn doesn't notify your
contacts each time you make a change to your profile. Custom URL

When polishing your LinkedIn profile, the first thing to do is create a
customized URL for your profile. Customized URLs look cleaner on your
resume and make it easier for employers to find your profile.

Ideally, your customized URL should follow the naming convention
"FirstName-LastName," or something similar. If that's unavailable,
choose a variation of your name that's still recognizable, simple, and
professional.

To customize your LinkedIn URL, follow the steps in this link. Profile
photo

One of the first steps in completing your LinkedIn profile is to add a
profile photo. When you have a LinkedIn profile photo, you can get up to
21 times more profile views than users without a photo.

You want your profile photo to showcase the best, most professional
version of yourself. The photo should reflect what you might look like
when you go in for an interview and should be representative of what you
look like currently. Here are some guidelines that your LinkedIn profile
photo should adhere to:

Smile. Like everyone else, employers prefer working with people who are
friendly and fun to be around. A smile is the best way to signal that
you are.

Be professional. No sunglasses, hats, or potentially offensive logos.

Be in focus. Either use a neutral, nondescript background or a camera
lens that blurs your background so that you're the main focus of the
photo and nothing distracts from you. For the same reason, you should be
the only person in the photo.

Opt for high quality. Your photo doesn't need to be taken by a
professional photographer, but it should be high quality, have sharp
(not fuzzy) focus, and be well lit. (No selfies!)

Two example LinkedIn profile pics Background photo

The next thing to consider is customizing your background photo. This is
the long photo that's displayed at the top of your LinkedIn profile.
While it's okay to keep the generic image, uploading a background image
can add visual interest to your profile and help it be more memorable to
viewers.

If you do choose to customize your background photo, try to choose one
that's the same color scheme as your portfolio or resume. You can also
use your background photo to keep a consistent brand, or you can pick an
image that reflects your location or the industry that you're
transitioning into. Just keep it professional, high quality, and
simple—you want it to enhance your LinkedIn profile, not be a
distraction.

You can either use your own image or something that you find online,
like from the free photo-sharing site Unsplash. Below are a few ideas.

A skyline of the city where you live: A skyline photo as an example
LinkedIn background image

A solid color that matches your portfolio or resume's color scheme:
Example background color that can be used in a LinkedIn profile.

A graphic that reflects your industry: Colorful lines of code that can
be used as an example background image on LinkedIn.

Headline

Next is your headline. This is the copy that you see below your name.
LinkedIn automatically makes your headline the title of your current
job. However, you can update it to reflect the job that you want, such
as, "Frontend Developer," "Technical Project Manager," or "Digital
Marketer."

To avoid hiring bias, don't use phrases like "open to new opportunities"
in your headline. About

Like the summary section of your resume, the LinkedIn About section is
an opportunity to control your story. Be strategic about what you write
in this section, knowing that how you describe yourself influences the
way that viewers think about you.

Are you a former technical support person, or are you a software
engineer with expertise in hardware and networking? Are you a marketer
turned designer, or are you a UX designer who is well-versed in what
customers want?

Generally, you can use the summary section of your resume as a starting
point. But because you're not limited on space, it's okay to expand. For
example, it's helpful to say what motivates you, share a relevant
personal anecdote, or identify your top skills. You can demonstrate that
you're someone who works well on a team, mention impressive projects, or
provide links to your portfolio.

Finally, write in first person. Viewers know that you're filling out
your own LinkedIn profile, so it's a lot more natural to use language
that reflects that. Here's an example of an interesting LinkedIn About
section:

Hi! I'm Amy and I tend to flex my right-brain muscles more often than
not. In the fifth grade, I took a bunch of my mom's magazines, clipped
them up, and created a student newsletter because our class didn't have
one. It was poorly constructed, stapled together on wide-ruled,
loose-leaf notebook paper, but it became really popular—so much so that
other students in my class started creating their own zines to compete
with mine.

My fifth-grade teacher was impressed by the engagement and told me that
I was an "innovative" 10-year-old that should hold on tight to her
creative skills. She also let me skip gym class so that I could start
producing the class newsletter with Microsoft Word. (Shout out to
ClipArt!)

I am a digital media entrepreneur, marketer, and full-stack web
developer who lives at the intersection of technology, art, and content
creation. I currently work in marketing for one of the world's largest
technology companies and spend my time outside the office empowering
women through my digital platform, mentoring, and service work.

My specialties are digital marketing, growth hacking, SEO, content
creation, blogging, web design, full-stack web development, HTML, CSS,
JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, ReactJS, Drupal, UX/UI Design,
Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign), design
principles, color theory, wireframing, and digital media. Experience

Your LinkedIn Experience section should mirror the experience section on
your resume.

While you need to manually write in your job title, company name, and
location, and select your start and end dates, it's best to copy and
paste the bulleted accomplishments on your resume for that job. LinkedIn
doesn't have formatting options, so you can use hyphens (-) or dots (•)
for bullets. When you finish adding entries, cross-reference them with
the entries on your resume to ensure that they match.

It's true that you have more space on your LinkedIn profile than on your
resume, but that doesn't mean that an employer's attention is infinite.
Resist the temptation to overload your profile with unnecessary details
or jobs that you had more than a decade ago. If you do choose to add
more detail to your LinkedIn profile, it should be by adding
accomplishments that are relevant to the job that you want but didn't
have room for on your one-page resume. Education

Like your Experience section, your LinkedIn Education section should
match the education entries on your resume. Including Thinkful in your
LinkedIn profile

You should list your Thinkful experience in either the Experience or
Education section of your profile—not both. Below are best practices for
listing it in either section. Including Thinkful in the Experience
section of your LinkedIn profile

On LinkedIn, you're unable to reorder your sections and projects are not
prominently displayed. For this reason, it can be helpful to list your
Thinkful experience in the Experience section of your LinkedIn profile.

For your title, write the title of the program that you're in or that
you're still in training; for example, "Digital Marketing Program" or
"Data Scientist in Training." Leave the employment type blank (or "-").
And write "Thinkful" as the company name.

Then, in the description of your Thinkful Experience entry, add the
details of your projects, making sure that you list all of the skills
and tools that you used. When it makes sense, you should also utilize
the media function that allows you to upload an image of or add a link
to your Experience entry. Including Thinkful in the Education section of
your LinkedIn profile

If you include Thinkful in the Education section of your LinkedIn
profile, type "Thinkful" for the school, "Certificate" for the degree,
and the title of your program for the Field of Study. For example,
"UX/UI Design" or "Product Management." Include the same information
that you would include in the Experience section—your projects, skills,
and so on. When appropriate, use the media function. Don’t include the
word “bootcamp” in your description, as some employers have a bias
against bootcamp grads. Skills & Endorsements

In the Skills & Endorsements section, list the individual skills, tools,
and abilities that you have. You can include up to 50, but you should
focus on the ones that are relevant to the job that you want (likely the
ones that are on your resume).

Order them from most to least relevant. Then, ask your Thinkful peer and
LinkedIn friends to endorse you for these skills (it helps if you
endorse their skills too).

There's some debate about whether this section is useful. However, at a
glance, these endorsements make you seem more credible. As well, these
skills make your profile more searchable in general, and LinkedIn uses
these skills endorsements to boost your search ranking in LinkedIn
searches. Recommendations

Since you're probably new to your chosen field, having someone vouch for
you can be incredibly valuable.

Your mentor is a good person to ask for a recommendation because they
can verify that you've mastered the skills of your program before you
graduate. A peer who you've collaborated with on a project, or someone
who can speak to your professional skills, might also be good people to
ask. Miscellaneous LinkedIn sections

You might notice that there are a few more sections available to you on
your LinkedIn profile, like Volunteer Experience. It's not necessary to
include all of these sections, but inspect them all so that you know
what's available to you and add any that add relevant value to your
profile. LinkedIn connections

Something to think about is how many people you're connected to on
LinkedIn. The more connections that you have, the easier it is for you
to get introductions to a company, and the easier it is for employers to
find your profile. So be intentional.

Search for and connect with past and current coworkers, past and current
classmates, your Thinkful community, family, friends, and people you
meet at networking events. LinkedIn also helps you find people to
connect. Just click the My Network link in the top navigation. When the
new page loads, you'll see a variety of people you may know.

LinkedIn is far less personal than other social media platforms, and it
is intended for networking. So, it's okay to extend and accept
invitations to connect from other LinkedIn users, even if they're
strangers. Supplementary resources

Exemplary LinkedIn Profiles to Inspire You

How to Make Your LinkedIn Photo Stand Out

How to Guard Your Profile Against LinkedIn Resume Assistant

5 Templates That'll Make Writing the Perfect LinkedIn Summary a Breeze

Contacting a Hiring Manager on LinkedIn

### 29.5 LinkedIn project

### 29.6 Building your GitHub profile

Building your GitHub profile 2 hoursEstimated completion time Learning
Objective

By the end of this lesson, you'll be able to create an effective GitHub
profile. Overview

Like any other marketing material, it's important to make sure that your
GitHub profile represents the best version of you and what you have to
offer. This lesson covers the GitHub features that you should pay
attention to during your job search.

As you may recall, GitHub is a platform that hosts code for version
control and collaboration. There are many ways to use GitHub for
software development specifically, but it's also a versatile platform
that a variety of tech professionals use.

And it's a powerful tool for your job search as well. Remember, most
employers search candidates' online profiles before making a hiring
decision.

GitHub can boost your desirability as a candidate, particularly when you
create a robust profile, use it regularly, and push contributions
often—both during the program and in your job search. In fact, an
active, robust, and well-organized GitHub can often get you an interview
over a candidate with a slightly less impressive GitHub profile. GitHub
profile components

At first glance, what do employers see when they look at your GitHub
profile? They see your photo, your bio, your popular and pinned
repositories, and your activity. Here's how to make each stand out
positively. Photo

Your profile photo is one of the first things that people (ahem,
employers) see when visiting your GitHub profile. For this reason, your
photo should be employer friendly and recognizably you.

It's helpful to use the same photo that you use on your LinkedIn
profile. This isn't required, but it does help establish a consistent
brand and make it easier for employers to remember you. Bio

Under your photo, you can—and should—add a bio. This can be up to 160
characters long and should focus strictly on who you are as a technical
professional. Generally, a trimmed-down version of the summary on your
LinkedIn profile or resume is best. Here are a few example bios:

JavaScript developer using jQuery/React/Node.js/PostgreSQL. Experienced
educator with an emphasis in informal education centers and nonprofits.

UX designer who enjoys photography and 3D visualization. Currently
pursuing UX design and frontend development projects.

Data scientist with a background in physics and research. Passionate
about using data to improve the way that businesses communicate with
customers.

Technical Project Manager

Popular repositories

Your profile also displays a selection of your popular GitHub
repositories. It's best to pin a separate repository for each project
that you complete. And for web development projects, it's helpful to pin
a repository for both the client side and the server side of a project,
such as in the following example. Pinned repositories on a GitHub
profile.

Remember to hide projects that you don't want employers to see. Although
there's value in showing how you've progressed in a short period of
time, you want to ensure that an employer sees your best work first.
Contribution graph

Below your popular repositories is a contribution graph, which shows
your recent activity on GitHub. Specifically, this graph shows when
you've committed to a repository's default branch or gh-pages branch,
opened an issue, proposed a pull request, or submitted a pull request
review.

Each tile represents a day. Gray tiles represent no activity, and green
tiles represent activity; tiles become darker green with more activity.

This graph is perhaps the most important part of your GitHub profile,
especially as you begin your job search. Most employers value candidates
who are excited about their work.

And an easy way to show employers that you care about your work is by
staying active on GitHub—beyond your program requirements and
particularly after you graduate from your Thinkful program.

So, after you graduate, continue to refine parts of your projects and
push them to GitHub. Aim for a green tile every day, from now until you
get your next job. Contribution graph summarizing pull requests, issues
opened, and commits. GitHub READMEs

All of your GitHub projects should have an accompanying README file that
serves as a summary of your work. READMEs are intended to provide
context for visitors looking at your project. The README should convey
what your project does, why it's useful, how users can interact with it,
who maintains and can contribute to it, and any other relevant
background information.

Employers aren't just looking for organized and active GitHub profiles;
they also want to see robust READMEs for each of your projects. This
gives them context about the project that they're looking at. And it
shows them that you're able to explain the concepts that you're working
with, which is something that employers value.

For each of your project READMEs, include the following information, as
applicable:

Context on the problem or project (what it is and why you're doing it)

Information on your research or user case

How the project is intended to be used or could be used

Various features or aspects of the project

The technologies and tools that you used to make your project and why

Any discoveries that you made while making the project

Your future goals for the project

Relevant screenshots or supplemental images

Supplementary resources

Pinning items to your profile

How to add screenshots to READMEs

Data science README example

Web development README example

## Careers: Job searching - Module 40

### 40.1 Understanding job searching

Understanding job searching 10 minutesEstimated completion time Learning
Objective By the end of this lesson, you should be able to explain the
purpose of job searching.

Overview The lessons in this module cover the best strategies for
finding job listings, understanding which job listings you should apply
to, and navigating internal and external recruiters. You'll also learn
about bypassing online applications through cold outreach, as well as
writing effective cover letters.

Stylized picture of a laptop and coffee cup As you probably know from
past experience, applying to jobs involves both strategy and luck. Even
when you apply to jobs that you're perfectly qualified for—even when
your resume is flawless—only a small percentage of your applications
turn into interviews. And transitioning careers comes with its own
unique set of obstacles.

Fortunately, your Thinkful careers team is here to guide you through
this process.

### 40.2 Applying for jobs

Applying for jobs 2.5 hoursEstimated completion time Learning Objective
By the end of this lesson, you should be able to apply to jobs
effectively.

Overview The goal of this lesson is to give you the information that you
need to conduct an effective and efficient job search that leads you to
interviews and, ultimately, to a job that you love.

Key Terms Internship A temporary position for a company that is designed
for the worker to get relevant experience in that industry and tends to
be filled by students or recent graduates Contract work A job that is
meant to last for a limited amount of time, often for a specific project
Freelance work Work performed for one or multiple companies at different
times, allowing the worker flexibility Full-time work Working for one
company, usually for 40 hours a week, for an indefinite period of time,
with benefits Job board A website where companies post open positions
Cold outreach To email or message someone who you have no prior contact
or relationship with, usually for the purpose of job searching Internal
recruiters Employees of a specific company who find and screen
candidates for jobs at the company that they work for. Also known as
in-house recruiters External recruiters Also known as third-party
recruiters, these are employees of staffing companies who find
candidates for job openings at companies or open positions for job
seekers Comparing job opportunities Unless you're Mark Zuckerberg, you
probably need to apply to a job in order to get a job. In fact, you
probably need to apply to many jobs to get a job.

And although there are lots of jobs available, there's also a lot of
competition—so you want to be as strategic as possible. Before you start
applying, it's helpful to take stock of the job opportunities that are
available to you.

When you're changing careers, your first job is often the most difficult
job to get. This is because employers are usually overwhelmed with
applications for any given job opening.

So, in an effort to hire quickly, they tend to interview only a few
candidates—the ones who have the most impressive and relevant
backgrounds. Unfortunately, career changers tend to look less qualified
on paper and may get cut before they're able to prove their skills.

With this in mind, your goal should be to get direct relevant experience
as soon as possible, so that you do look good on paper. A good way to do
this is to be open to all of the job opportunities available to
you—internships, contracts, freelance work, and full-time work. Below is
some information on each type of opportunity.

Internships An internship is when you work for a company specifically to
get relevant experience. These positions tend to be filled by students
and recent graduates, and they last a couple of weeks or months.

Because internships are viewed as a learning opportunity that benefits
you more than the company, most are low paid or unpaid with no benefits.
But they're often worth it. The experience can help you get jobs that
you're otherwise unqualified for, provide you with referrals, and may
even turn into a full-time job.

Here are a couple of resources for finding internships:

Apprenticeships

Idealist

Chegg Internships

And here are some companies that often have internship or apprenticeship
opportunities:

8th Light

Amazon

Lyft

Microsoft

Nerd Crossing

Spotify

Apprenticeships.me

Thoughtbot

Sparkbox

Linkedin REACH

Alternatively, it's perfectly okay to email a company and ask if they're
willing to consider you for a short-term internship. This is common
practice, even if there isn't an opportunity listed on the company's
website. If you choose to do this, here are some tips.

Contract work Contract work is when a company hires you for a temporary
amount of time—a couple of months to a couple of years. Usually,
contract workers are hired to help with a specific project. It's a good
way to practice your new skills in multiple job settings in a short
period of time.

The company pays you an hourly or salaried rate, and it may offer
benefits. And because contractors don't always get the same benefits and
perks as full-time employees, they tend to be paid more than full-time
employees in similar jobs. Like internships, contract positions can
sometimes turn into full-time jobs.

To find contract work, you can look on job boards or work with external
recruiters. (More on both of those below.)

Freelance work Freelance work is when you're self-employed. You can
choose to do work for one or multiple companies at different times. It
provides ultimate flexibility. You get to set your prices and schedule,
can usually choose to work from home, and can accept or reject projects
as you like.

Generally, it's up to you to invoice your clients and secure your
benefits. If you choose to do freelance work, here's a template that you
can use to create a contract or invoice.

Here are a few resources for finding paid freelance work, virtual
volunteer projects, and other remote opportunities:

Catchafire

Fiverr

Upwork

Tip If you're eligible for the Tuition Refund Guarantee and want to
maintain your eligibility, working as a freelancer or starting your own
business would make you ineligible for tuition reimbursement. That said,
if you're not eligible or don't want to keep your eligibility, then
freelancing is a good route to take.

Full-time work The term full-time work describes when you work for one
company, usually for 40 hours a week, for an indefinite period of time,
with benefits. Although more and more companies are getting comfortable
with remote work environments, these jobs tend to be in person, at a
company location, during set hours.

You can find full-time employment through job boards, cold outreach,
newsletters, Slack groups, and recruiters. Next, you'll learn more about
each of these methods.

Finding job openings There are lots of ways to find job openings, and
some are more effective than others. This section covers the various
ways that you can find job openings, and the benefits and disadvantages
of each.

Job boards A job board, also called an employment website, probably
seems like the most obvious way to learn about and apply to jobs.
Companies publish job openings on sites like LinkedIn and Monster. Then
you can search online for these listings and apply to them.

These sites are beneficial to any job searcher, because they publish
thousands of job listings from thousands of companies in one spot. And
they allow you to easily and quickly search for listings using terms
that matter to you, like project manager San Francisco.

There are lots of job boards to choose from, from general to niche.
Although there's no need to use all of them, it's a good idea to
incorporate a couple of job boards into your weekly job search
activities. This way, you'll be aware of which companies are hiring in
your area, and you'll know when there's a new listing that's a good fit
for you. Many job boards have features that allow you to get email
alerts when a new job is posted in your field.

Given the perks of job boards, it's important to remember the following:

Because of job boards' popularity, on average, you're competing against
100 other applicants for every job that you apply to online.

Applicants with a referral are 20 times more likely to be hired than
applicants without a referral.

Between 70% and 85% of jobs are obtained through networking.

This means that, even when you're applying to jobs that you're perfectly
qualified for, it can take hundreds of applications to get a job or even
an interview. It also means that networking should remain an essential
part of your job search.

Cold outreach Cold outreach is when you email or message someone who you
have no prior contact or relationship with. It's one of the most
effective job search strategies.

As you just read, most job opportunities are never posted on job boards.
Here's why:

Posting on job boards is expensive.

Companies' hiring needs can outpace their ability to maintain job
listings online.

It's easier and less risky for employers to hire people they know, and
employees are often incentivized to refer people within their network.

So how can you learn about the jobs that aren't posted online? Through
cold outreach.

Email or message someone at every company that interests you—even when
the company has no suitable job listings posted online—and ask them
about their hiring needs. That way, you can learn about job
opportunities that aren't posted, be the first person on the employer's
mind when it is time to expand their team, and potentially get a
referral. This also helps minimize your competition, because the entire
internet won't be applying for the same job.

Of course, cold outreach should be done with tact and professionalism.
Some best practices are described below.

Cold outreach best practices For every company that interests you, find
an employee who you can connect with. For smaller companies, any
employee is fine. For larger companies, it helps to pinpoint someone who
works in the department that you're interested in. You can find the
right person on a company's website or in a LinkedIn search. If you're
using LinkedIn, look for employees with complete and active profiles,
because they're more likely to see and respond to your message.

Then, either email that person or send them a LinkedIn message. Let them
know that you're interested in working at their company, and ask if
they're going to hire anyone in your field in the near future. Make it
personal and ask a question so that they're more likely to respond.
Here's an example:

Hi, Ahmaud. My name is Ariana. I know that you don't know me, but I'm
reaching out because I've been a long-time fan of Textio. I'm curious;
do you know if you'll be growing your digital marketing team in the next
year? (If so, I'd like to put my hat in the ring!)

That's it. Keeping it short and sweet with a simple ask makes it easy
for the person to respond.

If you already know that the company is currently hiring someone in your
field, you can say that you learned that there's a job opening that
you're interested in, and you'd like to be considered. Here's an
example:

Hi, Darcy. My name is Michael. I saw that your team is looking for a
frontend software developer, and I think that I'd be a perfect fit. Is
it all right if I send you my resume? Or, if you like, I'd be glad to
take you out for coffee and introduce myself.

Make sure to connect before you apply, so that you have the possibility
of getting a referral. And be persistent and follow up if the person
doesn't respond within a week. If they still don't respond, you can try
connecting with another employee at the company. Just don't be a
nuisance—you want them to like you.

Slack groups Another good job search tool is Slack. Slack has a lot of
public groups, which sometimes include job-related channels. For
example, the NYC Tech Slack group has a \#jobs channel where people post
job listings. Try to find similar groups in your area.

Recruiters As you start applying, you'll quickly become familiar with
recruiters. You may even receive messages from them on LinkedIn. It's
helpful to know that there are two major types of recruiters, and each
type has a different function.

Internal recruiters Internal recruiters, also known as in-house
recruiters, are employees of a specific company. Their job is to find
and screen candidates for jobs at the company that they work for.

Most often, internal recruiters are trying to fill permanent, full-time
jobs.

External recruiters External recruiters, also known as third-party
recruiters, are employees of staffing companies, like Robert Half.
Either on behalf of a company or themselves, their job is to find job
openings at companies and then find candidates who would be a good fit
for those openings.

They serve as a mediator between the company and the candidate. If a
candidate who they recommend is selected, they earn a commission.

Most often, external recruiters are trying to fill contract and
part-time jobs. You can find them by Googling recruiters in your
location and niche; for example, you could try creative recruiter
Atlanta.

When you work with an external recruiter, here's the typical process:
First, you give them a copy of your resume and tell them about your
career goals. When they learn about a job opening, they email you—and
everyone in their network who might be qualified—to see if you're
interested in the job. They then review the resumes of everyone who's
interested and send the employer the most impressive ones—which may or
may not include yours.

Remember, the recruiter's primary motivation is to earn a commission by
getting someone hired, not necessarily you. For this reason, external
recruiters can be a good way to boost your job search, but they should
never replace your other efforts, like applying to job listings and cold
outreach.

Newsletters Finally, there are a lot of good job-related newsletters
available online that provide tips about what companies you should apply
to. Here are some examples:

Glassdoor

Strictly VC

TechCrunch's CrunchBase

You can find relevant newsletters on job boards or by doing a simple
Google search. Here are a few popular career newsletters.

Now that you know how to find job openings, the next thing to do is
learn how to interpret job listings so that you don't miss out on any
opportunities that you're qualified for.

Understanding job listings Did you know that most job listings are wish
lists? Job listings often go through several stakeholders at a
company—or are copied from a similar job listing—before they're posted
online. This means that not every skill or experience that's listed as
"required" is actually necessary to get the job.

And it's not always clear from a job listing if you should apply or not.
This section helps you navigate job listings, so that you know what to
look for when you're deciding if you should apply.

Job titles First things first; job titles can be deceiving. Different
companies use different nomenclature when it comes to job titles. A
"business development manager" at one company might be a "tech
evangelist" at another company, even if it's the exact same job.

Keep this in mind in your own job search, and don't limit yourself to
the obvious or most literal job titles. Do a little research to find the
variations that are applicable to your field.

Education On job listings, the required education is usually a wish-list
item. It's okay to ignore it. Most employers are fine with candidates
who have equivalent experience or education, which includes your
Thinkful education.

Years of experience Job listings generally say that applicants should
have a certain number of years of experience. These numbers make more
sense when you think of them as levels of seniority. For example, zero
to four years is an entry-level job, five to seven years is a mid-level
job, and seven-plus years is a senior-level job.

Most Thinkful graduates are eligible to apply for jobs that ask for zero
to four years of experience.

And remember, you probably have more experience than you want to give
yourself credit for! Your projects, self-study, and past transferable
experience count toward your experience.

Technical skills Job listings tend to include a smorgasbord of
"required" technical skills. This is because employers want to capture a
lot of applicants. And frankly, it's also because they can write
whatever they want on the job listing—so they include everything that
they can think of, even if it's a nice-to-have instead of a
need-to-have.

When looking at a job listing's required skills, ask yourself these
questions:

Do I have at least three of the skills that are listed?

For the skills that I don't have, do I know anything that's comparable?

Do I feel confident that I can quickly learn the new skills and
technologies?

If you answer yes to at least two of those questions, you should apply.

Preparing for your job search Before you start applying for jobs, there
are a few ways to make yourself more marketable and appear more
professional.

Set up an email signature You can create an email signature in MS
Outlook, Gmail, or any other email client you use. Here's what to
include:

Full name

Phone number

Profession, title, or tagline: Depending on your employment situation,
you will use whatever combination of professional identifiers here makes
the most sense. If you are changing careers, don't list your current
job. Instead, use a tagline or branding statement that underscores what
you can bring to a future employer.

LinkedIn profile: You might add a simple link to your profile, text with
a hyperlink, or even a linked image that looks like a LinkedIn icon.

Personal website: Make sure that your website is cleaned up and displays
your best work before including it in your signature.

Clean up your social media You want your social media accounts to be
professional, as many companies will seek them out when researching
potential hires. One way to do this is to make sure the settings are set
to Friends Only, which makes them private to people not on your friends
list. If you want your profiles to remain public, take a look at the
following tips:

Clean up your posts and active accounts: Be sure to hide or delete any
inappropriate posts that you wouldn't want an employer to see. Run a
quick Google search on yourself to see what pops up. You might be
surprised what you forgot you signed up for.

Upload professional profile pics: Profile photos are the first thing
your prospective employer will see when they find your profiles online.
There is no need to get a professional headshot, but make sure that your
profile and cover images are professional and easily visible.

Write a professional bio: Think of this as your written elevator pitch;
it's the best way to explain to employers who you are, what sets you
apart from other candidates, and why you are a perfect fit for their
role. Go-to content for your professional bio includes your LinkedIn
summary, any job seeker profiles you create on job boards, your personal
website information, or your professional Twitter bio.

Edit your handles and URLs: Creating a custom URL takes a few seconds to
edit and helps make your digital presence more polished and
professional. You also want to make sure that any handles you use on
public profiles are professional.

Post and share industry-related news, articles, or insights: Start with
sharing content related to the industry you're in or want to be a part
of. Work your way up to creating your own posts and sharing original
content. This is a great way to show a hiring manager that their company
mission aligns with your own brand.

Follow inspiring people and companies: As you build your new career,
follow people who are already in that industry to inspire you. This also
includes blogs, news sources, podcasts, and other websites that can give
you insight into your new job.

Job search strategy You now have a good idea of how to find jobs and
which jobs you're qualified to apply to. Here are some final best
practices to keep in mind during your job search.

Applying often: Treat your job search as if it's your full-time job.
Make it a goal to apply to at least 10 jobs per week (that's only two
jobs per day) through cold outreach and applying to online job listings.
Aim to conduct at least two networking activities each week. Create a
rhythm for yourself that's easy to maintain, so that you don't burn out.

Tailoring your application: Getting a job is a mix of strategy and luck.
Although you won't get an interview for every job that you apply to, you
can increase your odds of success by tailoring your resume to each job
listing. Make sure that your resume includes some of the keywords in the
job listing, so that it's accepted by the company's applicant tracking
system (ATS). And remember, you can use tools like Jobscan and
SkillSyncer to see how an ATS treats your resume.

Staying organized: To stay organized, record the details of your
applications—where you applied, when, a link to the job posting, who you
connected with, and so on. This helps you keep track of all of the
companies that you apply to and the people who you reach out to.

Following up: Another reason to stay organized is so that you know who
you need to follow up with and when. Following up helps ensure that your
application isn't forgotten and makes you more memorable to employers.
It also shows employers that you take initiative and are truly
interested in getting the job.

Apply all of the skills in this lesson, and it's only a matter of time
before you'll move to the next stage of your job search: interviewing.

Supplementary resources LinkedIn-Friendly Cold Outreach Templates

Slack Groups and Communities

Slack Directory: Listed by Cities and Interests

Job Search Resources

Targeting Your Resume Worksheet

### 40.3 Writing cover letters

Writing cover letters 3.5 hoursEstimated completion time Learning
Objective By the end of this lesson, you should be able to create
effective cover letters.

Overview For most jobs, you'll have to write a cover letter briefly
outlining your experience and explaining why you are applying for the
job. But a strong cover letter is less about the job seeker and more
about the employer. This lesson will teach you how to write a compelling
cover letter that focuses on the employer. You'll also learn what
specifically to include when you're writing and styling your cover
letters.

Why are cover letters necessary? Cover letters are often the most
dreaded part of applying to jobs. Yet, it remains common practice to
submit a cover letter alongside your resume each time that you apply.
Why is this? There are a few good reasons, especially for career
changers.

Your cover letter adds personality to your application. It gives
employers a glimpse of the person behind the accomplishments listed on
your resume. They gain insight into your interests, values, and
expertise, which makes you a more memorable candidate.

Your cover letter shows off your communication skills. The ability to
clearly articulate your thoughts is beneficial for every job and,
therefore, matters to every employer.

Your cover letter can highlight anything in your background that's not
obvious on your resume but does add value for the employer. Resumes
often lack context, but your cover letter can compensate for this.

One thing to note, though: cover letters aren't really about you.
They’re about the employer. So, the focus should always be about what
you can offer the employer—not how the job can benefit you.

Cover letter components Like resumes, your cover letters should be
tailored to the job listings that you're applying to. It won't work to
use a generic cover letter for every application.

But don't worry—if you're applying for the same types of jobs, you can
repurpose the majority of the content in your cover letter to suit
different job listings. This makes writing a cover letter a fast and
painless process.

This section identifies the components that all of your cover letters
should include.

1.  Salutation

Start with a salutation that, if possible, is personalized to the
employer—the actual person who's reviewing your cover letter. For
example, you could write, "Dear Walter Stevenson." This requires
researching the company first, which shows your willingness to make an
effort and seek out answers on your own.

If you're unable to learn who the exact person reviewing your
application is, it's okay to say something like "Dear Hiring Manager" or
"Team Google." (But avoid "To Whom It May Concern," which feels extra
impersonal.)

1.  First paragraph: Stating your intent and skills

In the first paragraph of your cover letter, your goal is to identify
the job that you're applying to, show enthusiasm for the job or company,
and highlight two or three of your top skills related to the job
listing.

When it comes to showing enthusiasm, get specific. Find something about
the company or job that excites you, whether it's a connection to a
personal interest, a friend who works at the company and said something
positive about the work environment, or a company value or product that
resonates with you.

For example, "I have been playing Nintendo games my entire life, from
Super Mario Bros. to Fortnite and beyond, so it would be a dream to join
your team as a software engineer," is a lot more compelling than "It
would be so cool to work at Nintendo."

1.  Middle paragraphs: Proving your qualifications

Next, in one or two short paragraphs, show how your background qualifies
you for the job that you're applying to. For each of the top skills that
you listed in your introduction, provide a concrete example of you
learning or using that skill.

For example, you could mention that you just graduated from your
Thinkful program or describe one of your recent projects. This shows the
employer that you're not just saying that you have a skill or
exaggerating; you're proving it with your experience.

This is also the place for you to mention any of your valuable
experience that isn't obvious on your resume. For example, if you're
applying at a startup and you've worked at a startup in the past, this
is information that employers would like to know, but might not
understand just from looking at your resume.

1.  Last paragraph: Wrapping up

In your last paragraph, thank the employer for taking time out of their
day to review your application, and tell them how they can contact you
if they have questions or want to connect. Remember to show a little
enthusiasm for the job, too. (It's your last chance!)

For example, you could write, "I appreciate you taking the time to
review my application. Please reach out at 206-123-4567 or
becca@gmail.com if you have any questions. I hope to speak with you
soon!"

1.  Closing

Finally, include a sign-off with your name. "Sincerely" is standard, but
it's okay to use something a little more creative. Here are a few
options:

Sincerely

Best

Thank you

Thanks

Gratefully

Cover letter style After you write your cover letter, styling it is
easy.

Length: Keep your cover letters short—about 300 words or less.

Typeface: Use the same typeface for your resume and cover letter. This
makes your complete application uniform, polished, and professional.
Similarly, if you use a header for your resume, use the same header for
your cover letters too.

Tone: When writing cover letters, you want your tone to strike a balance
between professional and personable. Employers are real people; they'll
feel more connected to you if you sound like a friendly person instead
of an emotionless robot. Consider the company that you're applying to
and adjust your formality accordingly. For example, a conversational
tone may be appreciated at a casual startup, whereas a government office
probably prefers formality. When in doubt, err on the side of formality.

When to include a cover letter You might be asking yourself these
questions:

Are cover letters really necessary?

Should I submit a cover letter if it's optional?

Here's the thing. Yes, cover letters are necessary as long as employers
continue to ask for them.

When it's an option, choosing to submit a thoughtful cover letter can
make you positively stand out from the candidates who don't bother. It
shows employers that you're willing to put in extra effort and that you
care about the job.

The only time that you shouldn't submit a cover letter is when the job
listing expressly says not to. In that case, it could annoy an employer
if you ignore their almost certainly intentional note.

Supplementary resources Cover letter template Writing the Cover Letter
in 2021: Tone and Voice Expert Cover Letter Tips for 2021

### 40.4 Job searching project

# Module 46 - Careers: Interviewing

## 46.1 - Understanding interviewing

## 46.2 - Mastering the soft skills of interviewing

Mastering the soft skills of interviewing 2 hoursEstimated completion
time Learning Objective By the end of this lesson, you should be able to
master the behavioral components of interviews.

Overview Some things are universal to all interviews. You're always
going to be asked about your background. You're always going to be asked
about your salary requirements. And employers are always going to want
you to be prepared and poised. Accordingly, there are some best
practices that you should apply to all of your interviews. This lesson
covers how to prepare for an interview, answer common interview
questions, and follow up after an interview.

Key Terms STAR method An acronym that stands for
situation-task-action-result, this approach is a straightforward and
systematic way to answer behavioral questions Preparing for interviews
Making a good impression at an interview starts with preparing for the
interview before it happens. Some things you should do well in advance,
and other things you should do on the day of the interview.

Before the interview Before the interview, get prepared by conducting
some research, rehearsing your answers to common interview questions,
and making a list of questions that you want to ask the interviewers.

Researching the company Employers appreciate candidates who are familiar
with their company and work. Take some time to review the company's
website and blog, as well as any recent articles about the company that
you can find online. You should be able to explain the work that they do
and why you're interested in working for them.

Researching your interviewers Try to find out who's interviewing you and
then check them out on LinkedIn. Look at their backgrounds and figure
out how long they've been at the company and in their job. Look for
things that you have in common or that you find interesting about them.
Knowing a little about your interviewers can give you clues about the
types of questions that you can expect them to ask, and help you know
what questions you should ask them. It can even provide some
conversation topics to bond over during the informal, in-between moments
of an interview.

Reviewing the job listing It might be a while between the time that you
apply to a job and the time that you interview for that job. Always
review the job listing so that you know exactly what the job is and what
skills the employer is interested in. This will help you determine which
relevant skills and projects you should highlight during the interview.

Preparing your answers to common interview questions Although it's
impossible to know the specific questions that you're going to be asked
during an interview, there are common types of questions that arise in
most interviews. For example, you're going to be asked about your past
work experience, your projects, and your salary expectations. Think
about how you want to answer these questions before the interview, so
that you're ready to provide effective answers during the interview.
Many of these common interview questions, plus strategies for answering
them, are described below.

Preparing questions to ask during the interview Interviews should be
two-sided. While the employers are deciding if you're a good fit for
their company, you're also trying to decide if the company and employers
are a good fit for your life. This means that you should also come
prepared with questions to ask the interviewers. Writing them down ahead
of time and bringing them to the interview makes you look prepared. It
also ensures that you won't forget to ask about anything that's
important to you.

The day of the interview On the day of the interview, there are some
final considerations to keep in mind, from dressing appropriately to
using nonverbal cues to your advantage.

Dressing the part These days, many companies allow their employees to
dress casually at work—although this differs by industry, company, and
location. But as the person being interviewed, you want to make a good
first impression and appear clean, polished, and professional. Here are
a few guidelines to follow:

Be the best-dressed person in the room: Aim to dress one step more
formal than the interviewers. For example, if they're wearing jeans and
a t-shirt, you should be wearing jeans and a button-up shirt. Your goal
is to fit in, so you look like a culture match, but also to show
professionalism and convey that you take the interview seriously.

Be tidy: Whatever you wear, make sure that you and your outfit are
clean. Your hair and teeth should be brushed, and your clothes should be
pressed and without holes or stains.

Be comfortable: You should look professional and you should be
physically comfortable so that your clothing doesn't distract you. So
make sure to wear clothing that's easy to move in and doesn't require
frequent adjustments.

Be fabulous: Wear something that you like. When you feel good about the
way that you look, you have more confidence. This makes you appear more
competent and sets you up for a better interview.

Arriving on time Be on time for the interview. Punctuality shows
employers that you take the job, their time, and yourself seriously. It
also gives you time to steady your nerves. Here are good rules to
follow:

For phone screens: Pick up the phone after the first or second ring.

For virtual interviews: Join the meeting room five minutes before the
interview. Ensure that all of your technology is functioning correctly.

For onsite interviews: Arrive at the site of the interview 10 minutes
early, and plan for traffic and parking. Don't arrive more than 15
minutes early, because the interviewer is probably busy and this can be
annoying for the person who then needs to accommodate you.

Being present Before your interview, make sure that your mobile phone
and other gadgets are silenced or powered off. A buzzing phone during an
interview can be distracting and can make you appear careless.

Monitoring your nonverbal behavior In addition to your verbal answers,
interviews are also paying attention to your nonverbal behavior during
interviews. Here are a few things to keep in mind during your interview:

Maintain upright posture. Sit up straight and roll your shoulders back.
This communicates confidence and competence.

Face the interviewer with your body. This communicates that you're
interested in the interviewer and invested in the conversation.

Uncross your arms. Open posture communicates that you're friendly and
trustworthy.

Be still. Try not to fidget, swivel, or tap your fingers or feet. This
communicates nervousness and can distract the interviewer.

Maintain eye contact. It's okay to blink, but you should look at your
interviewers when you're answering questions, and especially when
they're talking. This communicates that you're listening and engaged.

Keeping calm Interviewing can be stressful. It's important to know some
techniques that can help you stay calm in a stressful environment. For
example, you could try striking a power pose, listening to a fun
playlist, or practicing breathing exercises before your interview. And,
ultimately, remember that some interviews are meant to test your
knowledge—so it's okay if you don't know the answer to every question.

Asking questions In most interviews, you are asked if you have any
questions for your interviewers. Your answer should always be yes.
Asking thoughtful questions is a good way for you to learn more about
the company, and it's also a way for you to show your interest in the
company and connect with your interviewers. In general, it's good to ask
a couple of questions about the job, a couple of questions about the
team that you'd be working with, and a couple of questions about the
company's work culture. Here's a list of questions that you can ask your
interviewers; of course, it's okay to write your own too.

Answering common questions Even though every interview is different,
there are some questions that you should always be prepared to answer.
These are covered below.

Tell me about yourself This is often the logical first question that
you're asked during an interview. It helps the interviewer get to know
you and establishes what follow-up questions they should ask you during
the rest of the interview.

Your response should always include these components:

Your desired profession.

How your background connects you to your desired profession. Most
employers want to know why you're changing careers, so it helps to
briefly explain how your background led you to where you are today. This
also gives you an opportunity to highlight relevant experience that the
employer may have not realized.

How you're qualified for your desired profession. Highlight all of your
relevant education and experience (like Thinkful!) and transferrable
skills. Make it clear that you have the skills that you need to do the
job. Include any skills that you have that are on the job listing.

Here's an example:

My name is Emet, and I'm a project manager. I started out as an
instructional designer, which includes a lot of project management. In
addition to developing curriculum, I was responsible for making sure
that my projects were delivered on time, and I was managing subject
matter experts' tasks and schedules. The project management part of the
work has always been my favorite part of the job, so I decided that it
was time to transition fully to project management. To make sure that I
have all of the skills that I need, I recently completed a certificate
program in project management. In this program, I learned how to plan,
schedule, and budget for business projects; use project management
tools; and create project summary reports. I also learned how to handle
the less technical aspects of the job, like resolving conflicts and
motivating people to complete work on time.

Everything in your answer should be relevant to the job that you're
applying to; there's no need to tell your life story. Additionally, aim
to keep your answer concise, about one to two minutes long.

How many years of experience do you have? This question comes up a lot
during phone screens. Employers try to get quick facts that help them
decide if they should keep you in—or filter you out of—the interview
process.

In your response, be honest and provide a specific length of time, but
don’t diminish the time that you spent studying or using relevant skills
in past jobs. That counts! Here's an example:

Collectively, I have two years of experience in web development. Most
recently I completed a program at Thinkful where I worked alongside
engineers in a fast-paced educational setting. During this six-month
intensive, I built web applications from the ground up and really honed
my skills in pair programming, troubleshooting, and quality assurance.
Additionally, in my previous role as a Data Analyst, I built various
tools using HTML and CSS to improve team operations.

Why do you want to work here? Employers like to hire people who are
excited about their company and work, as opposed to people who just want
a paycheck and will take any job. So, to gauge your level of interest
and check if you've done your homework, they might ask why you want to
work at their company or what you know about their company.

From your research before the interview, you should have an answer
ready. Identify something specific that you like about the company's
values, projects, or people. Show genuine interest without being salesy.
Here's an example:

While I understand the need to make a profit, it's important to me to
work for a company that's also a benefit to society. Being able to see
is clearly a benefit to society, and I like that you're going above and
beyond with charitable work by donating a pair of prescription lenses
for every pair of glasses that you sell. Also, everyone who I've chatted
with so far seems happy to work here.

What are you looking for? At some point, you're probably going to be
asked about the type of job that you want now or in the future. Like the
question above, this helps employers gauge if their company and job
opening are right for you. Your answer should include the specific
titles that interest you, the industries that interest you, and the
locations that interest you. Ideally, your stated interests will match
the title, industry, and location of the job that you're interviewing
for. For example, you could tell them that you're interested in a social
media marketing role at a tech company in Portland.

If you're asked about your long-term career goals, the employer might be
trying to find out how long you plan to stay in the job if you get
hired. Is it a job that you're excited about having for a while, or is
it just a way to make money until you can find something that you truly
want? Of course, the employer wants to hire someone who wants to stay
awhile, so that they don't need to rehire for the job in a few months.
When answering this question, you should emphasize that, although you're
open to opportunities for growth or mentorship in the future, you're
currently happy learning as much as you can in the type of job that
you're interviewing for.

Tell me about your past projects Employers often ask you questions about
your past work or projects. This helps them gauge how transferable your
experience is and assess your ability to communicate concepts and
processes.

This is an opportunity for you to bring up facts that show off your
skills. Start with an overview of your project, then get into specifics.
Focus on your specific contributions, how you solved problems, and your
results. Here's an example:

At Thinkful, I completed a variety of projects. Some were group projects
so that we could mimic a team workplace environment, some involved pair
programming with senior engineers, and some were individual projects.
For my capstone project, I developed a web app that helps users plan
road trips with scheduled stops. Whatever route the user chooses, the
app provides weather forecasts and suggests food and lodging options.
This was built using JavaScript, Angular, Node, Express, HTML, CSS, and
the Google Directions and Places APIs. Most of that, I learned at
Thinkful, but I actually taught myself Angular while I was developing
the app.

What are your weaknesses? When interviewers ask you about your
weaknesses, it's probably for two reasons: They want to know what your
weaknesses are in case they disqualify you from the job. And they want
to know if you're self-aware and able to turn your weaknesses into
strengths.

In your answer, you should provide a real weakness, but you should make
sure to choose a weakness that won't disqualify you from the job. You
should also say what you're doing to improve upon that weakness. Here's
an example:

Though I've never missed a deadline, in the past, I've struggled with
staying organized. I recently started adding every single thing on my
to-do list to a Google calendar, which has made a huge difference. I'm
also teaching myself how to use Kanban boards and project management
software, like Asana.

What are your salary requirements? Employers don't want to commit to a
candidate who they can't afford. By asking you about your salary
requirements, they can avoid getting excited about you if you're out of
their range.

Your goal, on the other hand, is to set yourself up for the best
possible offer and continue the conversation. To make sure that you're
not overselling or underselling yourself, try to have the interviewer be
the first person to provide a number or range. You can do this by
redirecting the question. You'll learn more about how to navigate this
process later in this module, but for now, here are a couple of
examples:

Good question. I think I need to learn a bit more about this job before
I'm able to give you a specific number. Is there a range that you have
in mind?

I haven't yet had a chance to dig into the market rate and general
salary for other folks at Netflix with my experience, but if you have a
range that you can share, I'll be happy to compare that to my research.
Otherwise, I trust that if I'm a fit, the salary will be aligned with my
experience.

Alternatively, you can say that you're flexible as long as the offer is
fair. Here's an example:

I'm open to any compensation that's externally competitive and
internally fair.

In case you're required to provide a number, do some research before
your interview. You can talk to others in your field, ask your career
coach, and check out sites like Glassdoor to learn about average
salaries for similar jobs. This allows you to provide a number that's
backed up by data, rather than personal interest. Even so, you should
still appear flexible. Here's an example:

Based on my research, it looks like the average base salary for data
scientists in Seattle is \$110K. Is that higher or lower than what you
have in mind?

Answering behavioral questions In addition to the questions described
above, there's also a common type of interview question that you should
be aware of: behavioral questions. These questions are asked to
determine how you might behave in a particular situation (hence
behavioral questions).

To determine how you might behave, interviewers ask you either about
your past experience in a given situation or how you would respond in a
hypothetical situation. Here are some examples:

Tell me about a time when you disagreed with your boss.

What do you do when you disagree with your boss?

What would you do if you disagreed with your boss?

No matter the question or phrasing, you should answer all behavioral
questions using the STAR method.

Using the STAR method The STAR method is a straightforward and
systematic way to answer behavioral questions. It follows the acronym
STAR, which stands for "situation, task, action, and result." Here's how
the method works:

Situation: First, provide context by describing a similar situation that
you were in; this usually involves a problem or conflict.

Task: Describe your specific tasks or role in the situation.

Action: Describe the action that you took to move the situation toward a
result.

Result: Describe the result of your actions and how the situation
resolved. This should be positive and, ideally, quantifiable. You can
also share any lessons that you learned, in case you would do something
differently the next time that you're in a similar situation.

Here's an example:

As part of a team of five people in a marketing firm, I was working with
a new client who wanted to improve their online presence and get more
website traffic. I was tasked with collaborating with the contracted
designer to help with the designs and make sure that we were reaching a
wider audience. Together with the designer, I was able to get their
website updated with better UX/UI. I also updated their mobile site on
iOS and Android to reach a wider market of users. Within the first
month, we increased their overall user traffic by 33%, and it increased
week-over-week by 5% for the remainder of the quarter.

Talking about your projects There is an infinite number of behavioral
questions that interviewers can ask, but they tend to fall within one of
these categories:

How you work in stressful situations

How you respond when you fail

How you handle conflict with other people

How you motivate yourself and others

How you make decisions

How your work has made a positive impact

How you build relationships with or manage stakeholders

Before the interview, think of situations from your past that you can
refer to for each category. Ideally, think about the ways that you can
answer these questions with your Thinkful education; consider your
projects, group assignments, or interactions with your mentor and
classmates. This allows you to answer the interviewer's questions and
remind them of your relevant skills and experience. This is particularly
important if you don't have prior experience in the field or are
struggling to think of transferable examples.

Take a moment to reflect on one of your recent Thinkful projects and
answer these questions:

What was the hardest thing about your project, and what did you do to
overcome it?

How did you exceed the project requirements, and what impact did that
have on the project or your overall growth in the field?

What was the biggest mistake that you made while working on your
project? What did you learn, and what would you do differently next
time?

What aspect of your project are you most proud of and why?

Take that information and use the STAR format to answer the following
prompt: Tell me about a challenging project that you worked on.

Following up after interviews You might assume that the interview is
over once you hang up or leave, but that's incorrect. After every
interview, you should follow up—both to thank the interviewer and to
stay updated about next steps.

Following up to thank the interviewers Send a follow-up thank-you email
within 24 hours of your interview.

Your thank-you message should include the following:

Gratitude

Excitement about the job

Something specific about the conversation that you had that pertains to
the job and your experience

An invitation to contact you if the interviewer has additional questions

Enthusiasm about the next step in the interview process

Here's an example:

Riley,

Thank you so much for taking time out of your day to interview me. I had
a great time talking to you and was especially excited to hear about
your team's mentorship opportunities.

I'm looking forward to chatting with the rest of your team next week.
Until then, if you have additional questions, don't hesitate to reach
out!

Cheers,

Will

If you don't have the interviewer's contact information, you can ask the
person who organized your interview if they're willing to forward your
message. In the case that multiple people interview you, you can either
send individual messages or one group message.

Following up when you don't get a response Sometimes employers get busy
and forget to follow up with you. Don't take it personally. Instead, be
proactive and follow up with them. At the end of an interview or in your
follow-up thank-you email, you should always ask what and when the next
step of the interview process is. That way, if you don't hear from the
employer by the date and time that they stated, you can follow up.

Allow yourself two check-ins for every step of the interview process.
And leave about five business days between each of those check-ins. If
the employer doesn't respond after the second check-in, move on to the
next opportunity.

It's generally best practice to follow up via email with your recruiting
contact or the last person who you interviewed with. Keep your follow-up
short and professional. Don't make assumptions and don't indicate any
anger or frustration; there's probably a good reason why they haven't
gotten back to you. Here's an example of an appropriate follow-up email:

Hello, Reagan!

I hope that this message finds you well. I wanted to touch base about
the cybersecurity role that I interviewed for last week—both to express
my continued excitement about the opportunity and to ask if you've made
a decision about next steps.

Thanks again for your time and consideration.

Regards,

Malia

Follow all of the tips in this lesson, and you're sure to make a good
impression—one that may even lead to a job offer.

Supplementary resources Practice behavioral interview questions

Sample questions to ask during an interview

The STAR method worksheet

Answering "Tell me about yourself" questions

## 46.3 - Engineering and web development interviews

Engineering and web development interviews 1 hourEstimated completion
time Learning Objective By the end of this lesson, you should be able to
prepare for a software engineering interview.

Interviewing for a software engineering role or a similar role can vary
widely depending on the company, the industry, and the specific
responsibilities of the role. An interview for a full-stack engineer,
for example, will likely be different from an interview for a frontend
web developer.

Nevertheless, there are still some common steps to the interview
process. When you begin an interview process for a technical role, you
will likely encounter many of the following steps:

Application process

Take-home challenge

Technical and culture-fit phone screen

Onsite coding or whiteboard challenge

These steps are described next, including any variations that you may
encounter.

Application process The first step in the interview process is actually
applying to the role. What is required for the role will differ, but you
will often need to include the following information:

A resume

A cover letter

Your GitHub profile

Your personal website

Depending on the application process, you may be able to apply using the
information that you have on LinkedIn.

Take-home challenge Sometimes, you will be given a take-home challenge
before moving on to the next step of the process—even before you speak
with anyone in person or over the phone. If you encounter this, the
company is probably attempting to filter out applicants. You may also
receive a take-home challenge after completing a phone screen.

Take-home challenges can vary considerably in terms of difficulty and
length. All of the following examples are possible:

You are given a web application to build with limited functionality and
particular constraints. For example, you must build a website that
filters movies based on a search string in the URL. (An example project
is included at the end of this lesson.)

You are given a small set of coding challenges to solve. (Examples of
these kinds of questions are included at the end of this lesson.)

You are given a bug to fix on an existing codebase or are asked to
review existing code and give your opinion.

Typically, the process will look like this:

You will receive an email admitting you to the next step of the
interview process. The hiring manager provides instructions and a
deadline. They also specify how to submit the problem.

You will work on completing the problem according to the instructions.
If it is a project, you will likely develop the project on your own
machine before sending them a GitHub link or zip file. If it is a coding
challenge, you will likely complete the problem on an external website.

Once your submission has been reviewed, you will be notified of whether
or not you are being moved to the next step of the process.

As soon as you receive the email with the deadline, check your calendar
and make certain that you believe that you have enough time to complete
the problem. If you have something important coming up, do not hesitate
to ask for a modest extension.

Technical and cultural phone screen This step of the process typically
involves a mixture of casual questions, technical questions, and
possibly some live coding. If more than a conversation is required, the
interviewer should let you know up front what is expected of you.

Either way, you may want to ask if there's anything in particular that
you should be prepared to discuss.

Casual questions During this part of the interview, you will likely be
asked generic interview questions, such as the following:

Tell me about yourself.

Why did you decide to become a web developer?

Tell me about your past experiences.

Prepare for these kinds of basic biographical questions ahead of time so
that you do not stumble while describing yourself or your past
experiences.

Technical questions During this part of the interview, the interviewer
will ask you generic coding questions about languages that you know or
high-level concepts. They may also ask you more specific questions about
projects that you've completed that are showcased on your GitHub or
portfolio website.

If you previously completed a coding challenge of some sort, they may
ask you questions specifically about that coding challenge.

Generic coding questions If the interviewer decides to ask you general
questions about coding, the topics can range from the abstract to the
highly specific. Here are a few example questions:

What is one of your favorite parts of JavaScript?

Describe the process that happens when you perform a search on Google.
In your answer, refer to DNS, browsers, servers, and databases.

What is a closure?

What are the four pillars of object-oriented programming?

What are global variables?

A Google search for JavaScript interview questions will provide you with
more than enough questions to look up.

Specific coding questions Your interviewer may also ask you questions
about your code or about code that they gave you ahead of time.

To prepare for these kinds of questions, make sure that you are familiar
with your own code. It is also helpful to have written comments for your
code, especially if it is something particularly complex. Make sure that
you are comfortable explaining what your code is doing as well as how it
is doing it.

Here are some examples:

I see that you have testing in your projects. Do you find testing useful
while developing an application? Why or why not?

In your capstone project, you enabled CORS. Can you describe what the
CORS package is doing and what CORS is?

In your capstone project, you made use of a complex component structure.
Can you describe how you structured your project to manage state?

Live coding If the interviewer has you do some live coding, they will
likely have you use a platform that lets them see or share your screen.
Hopefully, the interviewer will give you some idea ahead of time about
what kind of problem you will be solving.

During a situation like this, remain calm and ask questions if you get
confused. Treat this like a pairing session, where the interviewer is
your partner. Although you will be driving the experience, it is common
to forget some syntax or need to clarify some of the requirements.

Onsite technical challenge or whiteboard interview If you are brought in
to do a technical interview in person, it is likely that you may be
asked some of the same coding questions described earlier. You may also
be asked to either complete a technical challenge with a member of the
engineering team or solve a challenge in front of engineering team
members.

The number of people who you interact with really depends on the size of
the company and the engineering team. You may speak with just one or two
people throughout your experience, or you may meet with an entire team.

Coding challenge If you end up pairing with another member of the team,
you will likely be solving a small problem with the help of the team
member. The team member will often introduce the codebase and the
problem, and then the two of you will work together.

Often, this style of interview is as much about solving the problem as
it is about how you ask questions and work with the other developer.
During this process, you want to use technical language and ask
questions about why and how the code works. Usually, you'll be free to
look up syntax issues, just as you would while normally developing.

Whiteboard interview A whiteboard challenge is a classic interview
component for software engineering roles. In recent years, this
practice's usefulness has been questioned. However, it is still likely
that you will be asked to complete one of these challenges.

A whiteboard question will require that you solve an algorithmic problem
without the use of a computer. Typically, you'll be standing up at a
whiteboard, marker in hand, in front of one or two developers. This is
often challenging for a few reasons:

You likely rely on your code editor to fill in the blanks for syntax and
methods that you don't know. During a whiteboard interview, you will
need to recall that information from memory.

The problem that you will be given may be conceptually difficult and
possibly require you to find an optimal solution. These kinds of
problems are difficult on their own, even with a computer.

Standing up and talking about code while you write it is difficult!

To prepare yourself for a whiteboard interview, practice solving coding
challenges without the use of a computer. As you practice, talk out loud
and write the problem down on a sheet of paper or a whiteboard, if you
have one. Try to emulate the experience as best as you can.

Example whiteboard questions are included in the following section.

Example coding project Expectations of take-home exercise The goal of
this exercise is to demonstrate your ability and knowledge around
building full-stack web applications. We want to see what kind of
choices you make in terms of both the visual design and the
architectural design.

This exercise should take you around four hours to complete. Please feel
free to ask us questions ahead of time to clarify requirements or
discuss the due date if it does not work for you.

Deliverable In this exercise, you will be building a simple website that
organizes homes for sale. Your website should have the following
features:

Display all homes on a single page, where only the image, price,
address, and registration date are shown.

Sort homes by price and registration date, both ascending and
descending.

Click a home to see more information, including the real estate agent
details and a brief description.

A button on the home page should let any user add a new home through a
form. All information is required.

The home data should be stored in a persistent storage solution. To
start, you should include the following data: homes.json.

Technical constraints You are welcome to build this project using
whatever stack you prefer. Please keep in mind that you must do the
following:

You must include a persistent storage solution for your application.

You must deploy your application to the web so that we may access it.

Outside of that, have fun with your stack—but be ready to defend your
decisions!

Submission details When you are done, please respond to this email with
a link to your deployed application and your GitHub. In your GitHub
repository's README, please include instructions on how to install and
run your application.

Code challenge resources There are numerous websites that will help you
practice small but difficult problems. These kinds of problems could
show up during a code screen or during a whiteboard interview. The
following are just a few:

HackerRank Exercism.io Codewars LeetCode CodeSignal

## 46.4 - Negotiating

Negotiating 1 hourEstimated completion time Learning Objective By the
end of this lesson, you should be able to negotiate a job offer
effectively.

Overview All job offers present the opportunity to negotiate. A good
negotiation, however—one that results in a happy outcome for you and the
employer—requires research, planning, and the right attitude. This
lesson teaches you the right way to negotiate, beginning with why and
when you should.

Key Terms Fair market value The amount of money that employers generally
pay someone with your skills for a specific task Why and when you should
negotiate Negotiation can be uncomfortable and, therefore, tempting to
skip. But often, a few awkward minutes are worth the long-term benefits
of asking for more. This section details why and when it's a good time
to negotiate.

Why you should negotiate There are lots of good reasons to negotiate an
initial offer. Here are four reasons that usually apply:

You deserve to be paid your fair market value. This is the amount that
employers generally pay someone with your skills for a specific task. As
such, your compensation should be based on your fair market value. Not
your previous salary. Not a company's income. Not more. Not less. If
your initial offer is below your fair market value, you may be able to
correct this through negotiation.

Employers expect you to negotiate. Negotiating is common practice.
Employers aren't surprised or offended when you try to negotiate.
Because employers expect you to negotiate, they often initially offer
you less than they are willing to pay you. They probably expect to pay
you more than their initial offer.

Asking for a fair salary communicates your value. If you go to the store
to purchase a microwave, you naturally assume that the most expensive
microwave is also the highest quality and the least expensive microwave
is the lowest quality. The same is true of how employers view you. If
you don't contend for a salary that aligns with your fair market value,
employers might wrongly view you as less skilled than you actually are.

Your base salary influences your future earnings. If you hope to work at
the same company for a long time, your future raises and bonuses are
generally based on the base salary that you start with. For that reason,
negotiate the highest base salary that you can. That can amount to a
difference of hundreds of thousands of dollars over the span of your
career.

When you should negotiate Negotiating is a good idea in most scenarios,
but not all. Below are some guidelines to follow regarding when you
should and shouldn't try to negotiate.

Negotiate after you receive an offer. The best time to discuss
compensation is after you receive a job offer. This is when you have the
most leverage, because you're certain that the employer wants to hire
you more than every other candidate who they interviewed. If an employer
wants to hire you, they're more likely to be flexible when discussing
compensation, because they want to ensure that you accept their offer.

Negotiate when the offer is below your fair market value. As stated
previously, you deserve to be paid your fair market value. If the offer
is less, you have an objective reason to ask for more, and you should.

Negotiate when you won't accept the current offer. If the offer is below
what you're willing to accept, then you have nothing to lose. If you
negotiate, the company might agree to pay you an amount that you're
happy with. And if they aren't flexible, at least you asked.

Refrain from negotiating when the employer says that you're receiving
their best offer. When an employer says that you're receiving their best
offer, they might be bluffing. But it's also possible that they're
telling you the truth and giving you their best offer to show you how
valuable you are to their team. If you try to negotiate, you might seem
unappreciative or insensitive to the company's budget, and it's possible
that the employer will rescind the offer. Generally, only try to
negotiate in this circumstance if you won't accept the position unless
the offer increases.

Refrain from negotiating when you have no justification. In the event
that an employer makes you an offer that is well above your fair market
value, it may be pointless to negotiate, because you have nothing to
justify asking for more.

The eight steps of negotiation No matter how big or small the
compensation package is, the following eight steps are a great road map
to follow when negotiating a job offer. You should follow the first two
steps before you receive an offer and the last six steps after you
receive an offer.

Before receiving an offer When you're considering buying a particular
home, it's smart to compare it to other houses in the area, so that you
know that the seller is requesting a fair price. It's also helpful to
inspect the house so that you know that it has all of the features that
are important to you (three bedrooms, a fenced backyard, and so on).

The same is true of job offers. To ensure that you receive a fair offer
that has all of the components that matter most to you, you first need
to research what a fair offer is. Then, take some time to think about
what benefits you value most.

Step 1: Determine your fair market value Always bring data to a
negotiation. In particular, know your fair market value. This is an
objective number that's provided by external sources; therefore, it's
difficult for an employer to disagree with.

When determining your fair market value, choose a number that is
ambitious but not impossible. There is always a range, so aim for a base
salary that is at or above the average salary within that range. For
example, if the range of compensation is \$30,000-\$50,000, and the
average salary is \$41,000, aim for a salary that is between \$41,000
and \$50,000.

Here are three ways that you can determine your fair market value.

Check Glassdoor

Glassdoor is an excellent resource for determining your fair market
value. Start by going to Glassdoor's website.

In the text boxes at the top, list the job title and location of the job
that you're considering and select Salaries from the drop-down list.
This will return a page that shows you the range of salaries and the
average salary that employers in that location pay for the job that you
listed.

Conduct an informational interview

Because salary ranges differ by company, it's helpful to talk to an
employee of the exact company that you're interviewing at. If you have
the opportunity, you can ask that employee if they know the expected
salary range for the role that you're seeking.

For example, you could ask, "If offered a job here for the data
analytics associate role, what salary should I try to negotiate?" This
should happen during a casual conversation or informational interview,
not an actual job interview.

Ask your career coach

Your career coach dutifully tracks the employment details of all
Thinkful graduates they work with, including base salaries. If another
Thinkful graduate has already been hired at the company that you're
interviewing at, your career coach might know the salary range that the
company is willing to entertain.

Step 2: Familiarize yourself with the components of an offer
Compensation is more than just the base salary. When considering a job
offer, you should weigh all of the monetary gains, the future potential
that the job would provide you with, and how happy it would make you on
a day-to-day basis.

Monetary gains

Base salary is just the tip of the iceberg. Monetary compensation
generally includes healthcare and a retirement plan.

Sometimes, it also includes a signing bonus, annual pay increases
written into the contract, and equity or stock options. It may also
include various other perks, like a bus pass, meals, a gym membership,
or continuing education funds.

Future potential

Your next job might not be your dream job—but, ideally, it will lead you
to your dream job. Consider how the job title and responsibilities will
look on your resume to a future employer, and see if there are
opportunities for mentorship and growth within the company.

Happiness

It's the small, day-to-day details and interactions that either provide
you with job satisfaction or make you resent going to work. These
details comprise the people who you work with, including the company's
leadership as well as your direct managers and coworkers.

Other important factors include the number of hours that you're expected
to work each day, as well as the type of work that you're assigned. You
also want to consider the environment that you get to work in, and the
length of your commute. It also involves other details that matter to
you personally, like the ability to work from home or bring your pet to
work.

Take some time to think about which offer components are most important
to you—and which ones you're willing to compromise on.

Upon receiving an offer Surely, the happiest part of a job search is
receiving an offer. Should you choose to negotiate, you can use the
following steps as a guide.

Step 3: Take a step back Upon receiving an offer—even a good one—it's
best to take a step back. Don't accept or reject the offer immediately.
Instead, warmly but neutrally thank the employer, ask for a written
version of the complete compensation package, and ask for time to look
it over.

The amount of time that you ask for is up to you. If you're actively
interviewing at other companies and expecting more offers, it might be
good to ask for a week. This way, the other companies will have the
chance to finish interviewing you and make you an offer. If you're
confident that you want to accept this offer, no matter the result, you
might only need a day.

For example, you could say, "I appreciate the offer! Are you able to
email me a copy of the entire Employee Agreement? I'd love to have a
couple of days to look it over and make a decision."

Or you could say, "Thank you! I'm glad to hear that you want me on the
team; I really enjoyed talking to everyone last week! Can you email me
the offer details? If possible, I'd like to discuss this at home and get
back to you next week."

Step 4: Strategize With the full details of a job offer in front of you,
it's time to strategize your negotiation. In this step, you should
review the offer, determine what you would like to negotiate, gather
supporting data, and rehearse your talking points.

Assess and plan

First, write down what the offer includes and what changes you want to
see. Is the base salary aligned with your fair market value? Can you ask
for more based on your prior experience or education?

Does the job title accurately reflect the responsibilities? Is there a
retirement plan? How much time off is included? What else?

When you're determining a base salary and benefits to ask for, it's
helpful to ask for more than you want. (Remember: You want your salary
ask to be ambitious, but not impossible.) Why? Because the employer may
try to negotiate down, but also because the employer might give you
exactly what you ask for.

Gather data

Whatever you decide to ask for, have data that supports your request.

If you ask for a higher base salary, you should be able to point to an
outside source, like Glassdoor, that demonstrates your counteroffer's
reasonableness. Or, if you ask for a different title, you should be able
to show the employer other job descriptions that show why your title
makes more sense.

And if you ask for a higher base salary to compensate for a lack of
healthcare, you should have the math ready that shows exactly how much
you will need to pay for healthcare out of pocket each year. And so on.

Have these notes on hand so that you can refer to them if necessary.

Practice

It might feel silly, but you should practice negotiating aloud. This
helps you get the wording and tone right, and it makes it easier to
follow through when you're talking to the employer.

Rehearse how you're going to start the negotiation, what you're going to
ask for, and what you're going to say if the employer responds favorably
or negatively to your requests. You may also benefit from writing out a
script or talking points that you can refer to.

Practice speaking in a tone that is warm but neutral. Your tone should
not be aggressive, because this can sour the relationship between you
and your new employer. Conversely, you shouldn't seem overly excited
about the offer; the employer won't feel the need to negotiate if
they're sure that you're going to accept either way.

Step 5: Schedule a time to reconnect with the employer The day before
you said that you would reconnect with the employer (or earlier, if
you're ready), email the employer to request a time to discuss the
compensation package over the phone.

Don't negotiate over email. It's easier for an employer to say no to a
computer than a human who they're actively talking to, and email creates
an opportunity for tone to be misinterpreted.

Here's an example of an email that you could use to request a phone
call:

Hi, Sabine,

I'm excited about the offer and was wondering if you have some time
tomorrow to discuss a few questions that I have.

I look forward to speaking with you!

Best,

Darnell

Step 6: Negotiate It's time!

After you greet the employer (remember that your tone should be warm and
neutral), begin the negotiation by naming the items that you would like
to negotiate. Indicate which items are most important to you and provide
data to support your case. This is better than negotiating each item one
at a time, as the employer can lose patience and generosity the longer
that it goes on.

Here's an example:

Hi! How is your day going so far?

So, I had a chance to look at the offer and I have a couple of
questions. I'm wondering how flexible the base salary is and if it's
possible to increase the signing bonus. Base salary is most important to
me. After doing some research, I saw that the average salary for this
role in San Francisco is closer to \$100,000.

Now, wait. Let the employer speak next.

The employer will likely do one of three things: they will improve the
offer, they will say that they need to ask a manager for approval and
will get back to you later, or they will say that they're unable to
change the offer.

If the employer isn't willing to negotiate one or all parts of the
offer, don't try to negotiate a second time; it's unlikely that they'll
change their mind. If you try to negotiate again, the employer might
rescind the job offer altogether, because they won't want to hire an
employee who seems unhappy with their compensation from the start.

Step 7: Take another step back and assess the new offer If the employer
gives you everything that you've asked for, you can skip to step eight.
Otherwise, thank the employer for their willingness to listen and
consider your amendments, and ask for an additional day to consider the
new offer. The offer might be the same, but now it's official and final.

You might already be leaning toward accepting or rejecting the offer,
but it's a good practice to never make big life decisions on the spot.
You might change your mind.

You can say, for example, "Thanks so much! I'm going to run this by my
partner one more time and will get back to you with an official response
tomorrow morning, if that's OK."

Step 8: Accept or decline the offer After considering the final offer,
it's time to make a decision.

If you choose to accept the offer, congratulations! You can email or
call the employer and tell them that you accept and are thrilled to
begin working with them.

If you choose to reject the offer, remain kind and professional, even if
you're frustrated. Why? The world is small; you might cross paths with
the employer at another company in the future or at a local meetup.

Also, remember that you represent Thinkful and your other classmates.
So, conduct yourself professionally so that the employer is willing to
work with other Thinkful alumni who want the offer that you rejected.
You can even consider recommending a classmate for the role.

Here's an example:

I really appreciate you and the team taking time to get to know me.
While I'm a big fan of your company, I don't think that this is the
right choice for me at this time. If you like, I'd be glad to introduce
you to two of my classmates who have similar skill sets and, I believe,
would be perfect for the job.

FAQs Here are some frequently asked questions about negotiating salary
offers.

What do I do if an employer asks me about my salary expectations before
they make me an offer? Employers sometimes ask you about your salary
expectations early in the interview process to see if your salary
expectations are aligned. If you say a number that's more than they want
to pay, they might remove you from the application pool.

If you say a number that's too low, they might offer you a salary at the
bottom of the range that they're willing to pay or assume that you're
less capable than you are.

For this reason, to the best of your ability, sidestep or redirect
questions related to salary expectations before you're made an offer.
You can do this by providing a general answer, asking for more time to
think about it, or asking them a question.

For example, you can say that you'll happily consider all offers that
are in line with the market. Or you can say, "There's still a lot that I
need to learn about this role. Would it be okay if we revisit this
question after I have the chance to do more research?"

Here's yet another option: "Great question! I was actually going to ask
you what your pay range is for this position."

If the employer insists that you provide a specific number, you can
refer to objective data and ask them what they think of that figure. For
example, you could say, "Glassdoor says that the average salary for a
junior data scientist in Seattle is about \$100,000. Does that sound
right to you?"

The point is to make salary an open discussion rather than a
take-it-or-leave-it ultimatum. If you show that you're flexible, then
most employers are happy to move forward with you.

How do I respond if an employer asks me to share my current or past
salaries? Avoid disclosing your current or past salaries. All job offers
should be based on your fair market value—not your current or past
salaries. If asked, you can politely respond that you prefer not to
disclose that information since it's in a different industry.

Alternatively, you could say, "I'm a student, so I currently don't have
a salary," or, "I'm glad to consider any salary that's aligned with the
market rate for this role."

What do I do if an online application requires me to list my salary
requirements or a current or past salary? You can try writing N/A or
Prefer not to disclose.

If you're required to list a number, however, write \$1. The employer
will know that you want more than \$1 or that your current or past
salary is greater than \$1; this simply communicates that you don't want
to discuss it at this time.

How do I calculate an hourly rate? If you're asked to provide an hourly
rate, it's generally because you're considering a contract role. Many
contract roles don't include standard benefits, like healthcare or
401(k) matching, so it's helpful to add these lost gains into the hourly
rate that you provide.

Calculate the following:

Your market value.

The amount of money that you would need to pay out of pocket each year
for healthcare.

The amount of money that you will miss out on by not having a company
retirement savings plan, like 401(k) matching or a Registered Retirement
Savings Plan.

Add these three numbers together, and then divide that number by 2,080
(the number of work hours in a year). Voilà! That's your hourly rate.

Alternatively, you can use this handy salary calculator to convert an
annual salary to an hourly rate.

What things can I do to give myself more leverage when negotiating? Here
are five things that you can do to give yourself more leverage when
negotiating:

Be certain that the employer wants to hire you. In other words, don't
negotiate until the employer gives you an official job offer.

When you receive an offer, maintain a warm but neutral tone. If it's
obvious that you're happy with the initial offer, an employer will have
no motivation to increase it.

If possible, interview at multiple companies simultaneously. If an
employer knows that other companies are interested in you, they will be
more motivated to make you a good offer so that you choose them.

Build allies at the company. If current employees are eager for you to
be hired, they will put pressure on the employer to ensure that you're
hired, no matter the rate.

Have a good attitude and aim for a win-win result for you and the
employer. If you seem unfriendly, annoyed, or self-serving, the employer
might not feel like doing you any favors. They might even second-guess
having you on their team.

Supplementary resources Ask For It: How Women Can Use the Power of
Negotiation to Get What They Really Want

Startup Employees: Understand Your Offer

10 reasons you should NOT negotiate your salary

Equity vs. Salary in Tech: What's the Difference?

## 46.5 - Interviewing soft skills project

## 46.6 - Finalizing your GitHub portfolio
