---
ctime: 20230206121930
id: d57b7cef-6b15-4fd4-a6b3-682700278c2b
mtime: 20230206181551 20230206124120
title: Tridactyl
---

[tridactyl-anki](id:8a8f569e-87d1-433e-beb2-75c3d16050b5)

Tridactyl is to allow you to navigate the web more efficiently with just
the keyboard. Tridactyl turns Firefox into a modal browser.

Normal mode This mode is used for navigating around single pages and
starting other modes. Tabs are usually in this mode. You can enter
normal mode from the other modes by pressing Escape. Hint mode This mode
highlights elements on the web page and performs actions on those
elements. This is most often used for following links, but it has many
other submodes. You can enter this mode with f and exit it with Escape
or Ctrl-\[. Hint characters are displayed as uppercase letters, but you
should type the lowercase letter. Visual mode (experimental) This mode
allows you to select text on the web page and copy it to the clipboard
or search for it using s and S. You can enter this mode with v, by
selecting text with the mouse, ;h hint mode, / searching or by using
Firefox's "caret" mode on F7 and exit it with Escape or Ctrl-\[. Command
mode ("ex-mode") This mode allows you to execute more complicated
commands by typing them out manually. It is commonly used for binding
keys and accessing help. You can enter this mode with : and exit it with
Escape or Enter. Ignore mode This mode passes all keypresses through to
the web page. It is useful for websites that have their own keybinds,
such as games and Gmail. You can toggle the mode with Shift-Insert,
Ctrl-Alt-Escape, Ctrl-Alt-Backtick, or Shift-Esc. While in ignore mode,
you can execute a single normal mode binding by pressing \<C-o\>
followed by the keys for the binding. While in normal mode, you can
enter ignore mode for one keypress / key combination by pressing
\<C-v\>. Tridactyl can be configured to enter ignore mode for specified
URLs. Run :blacklistadd \[url\] to put Tridactyl in ignore mode on the
provided URL. Use the command :blacklistremove \[url\] to remove the URL
from the blacklist.
