= 1.2 Given a scenario, install components within the display of a laptop.

Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! Here we will look at what you need to know
to satisfy A+ 220-1001 sub-objective 1.2. We will examine the functions
available and the features of a laptop display panel. While most of us think of
it as simply “the lid”, more and more features are finding their way into the
laptop display panel. We will begin by examining the types of displays available
for the laptop display. The display type can provide space for other components
  without adding size. Laptop displays break down into two main types: LCD and
  OLED. These display types can be defined further by their characteristics.


== Types
Laptop Display Installation (scenario)

When working on laptop displays, you must be able to install components in a
given scenario. In addition to the display itself, the full display assembly may
also include a WiFi antenna, webcam, microphone, inverter, and digitizer/touch
screen.
Types

The two types of displays that you should be familiar with are LCD (liquid
crystal display) and OLED (organic light emitting diode). The vast majority of
laptops use LCD displays. OLED was introduced a few years ago but is still not
found on many laptops. However, with a new generation of OLED displays being
introduced, you can expect to see more.

Laptop Display Components 
 
1. Many manufacturers sell a replacement laptop “screen assembly”, which is basically the top 
half of the laptop (screen, bezel, camera, touch digitizer, and hinges).  It might be easier to 
replace the entire assembly, especially if multiple components are damaged 
2. Wiring for the screen is routed through the laptop hinge and connects into the system board 
3. To replace just the laptop screen. 
a. Determine if the screen has a bezel (rectangular plastic that surrounds the screen).  
This is common on laptops without touch capabilities 

There are two types of laptop screens: LCDs and OLEDs 
• 
LCD 
o Liquid Crystal Display 
o Also known as TN or IPS 
o Requires a backlight to stay bright 
o If the backlight fails, the screen will look dim 
• 
OLED 
o Organic Light Emitting Diode 
o No backlight required 
o An OLED screen can display a wider range of colors because it doesn’t have a 
backlight that interferes with the colors 
o Can be thinner and lighter 

=== LCD
LCD

LED technology uses backlighting, where light shines through liquid crystals to
create images. The light passes through color filters to create the color image.
This type can be TN or IPS:

    TN: twisted nematic LCD; fast response times.
    IPS: in-plane switching LCD; good for mobile devices, but more expensive.

LCD technology can feature either CCFL or LED backlighting:

    CCFL: cold cathode fluorescent lamps: older technology; needs more power
    than backlighting.
    LED: brighter and more energy efficient than CCFL.


LCD

LCD is a term that has had its definition evolved as the technology has
improved. The basic LCD design consists of a liquid crystal material sandwiched
between two clear plastic sheets with a light source behind the package. The
liquid crystal material is divided into small squares.

Each square is independent of the others and each is capable of 32-bit color
depth. These squares are referred to as pixels and many monitors are classified
by its monitor pixel count, that is, how many pixels wide and how many pixels
high is the screen’s resolution. For example, you may see a display listed as
1680×1050. This indicates that there are 1,680 independent rows of pixels
arranged horizontally on the display and 1,050 rows of pixels arranged
vertically. You may also see values such as DPI (Dots per Inch). With DPI, more
is better. Here is a great comparison of how pixels have been and are used to
provide imperceptibly clean images. Remember, these images are greatly
magnified.

Pixel geometry (This image was created by Pengo, many thanks!)

The time it takes a pixel to respond to a changed value is known as the response
time. The response time is defined as the time it takes a pixel to change from
completely black to completely white, and then return back to black. The
response time is measured in milliseconds. Response times vary from 1ms to 11ms.
The monitor’s cost varies according to its response time. Use these numbers to
ballpark the monitors you are choosing. Often, the response time measurement is
instead the response time for the pixel to go from grey to white to grey. In
addition, with no true definition of grey, these measurements are highly
inconsistent. Instead, use your eyes and look for ghosting and viewing angle
when selecting a monitor.
TTL vs. IPS

There are three technologies used in LCDs: TN, TTL, and IPS. Let’s familiarize
ourselves with these three technologies.

TN – Twisted Nematic (TN) screens have exceptional response times, brighter
colors, and crisp imaging. The downside to this technology is that they use
considerably more power while providing a restricted viewing angle compared to
the other types.

TTL – describes a digital circuit that uses Transistor Translator Logic (TTL).
The term has also been used to describe monitors that accept digital signals as
opposed to analog signals such as composite or component.

IPS – In-Plane Switching (IPS) technology provides an enhanced viewing
experience when compared to the other display types. IPS offers truer colors and
an expanded viewing angle when compared to the others.
Fluorescent vs. LED backlighting

For all the previously discussed screen technologies, keep in mind that there is
no light emitted from the screens themselves. Like a photographic “negative” or
a projector slide, the screens need illumination for us to see the image. That
is where the concept of backlights comes in. Two types of backlights are shown
below.
Inverter

CCFL – Cold Cathode Fluorescent Light (CCFL), or its common name fluorescent
light, is simply a fluorescent light placed behind the display. Multiple lights
can be used but each one requires its own Inverter board. The Inverter converts
DC current into AC current to power the bulb. If two lights are used, two
inverters are required to power them.

LED – Light Emitting Diodes (LED) are quite bright and very efficient in terms
of energy consumption. LEDs are also environmentally friendly. One of the
reasons for their efficiency comes from the fact that the power does not have to
be “inverted” for use. The LED is able to use DC power straight from the
motherboard with no waste. In addition, LEDs themselves are small, efficient,
and quite bright. When placed behind the LCD, they produce bright accurate
color. Here are images of a LED panel and a CRT monitor display. Both are highly
magnified for detail but the similarity is evident.

Tri-color

CRT

Portable LCD
• Liquid crystal display - Light shines though liquid crystals
• Advantages
•• Lightweight
•• Relatively low power and relatively inexpensive
• Disadvantages
•• Black levels are a challenge
•• Requires separate backlight
••• Florescent, LED, etc. / Difficult to replace

=== OLED
OLED

As the name implies, organic light emitting diodes do emit light, so no
backlighting is needed. When the element is off, it is completely black, whereas
LCD elements cannot be completely black. OLED displays look sharper than the
LCD.

OLED

Another type of display is the OLED (Organic Light – Emitting Diode) which uses
a thin LED film of organic material sandwiched between two electrode grids.
There’s no backlight and the lower light produced by the LED film allows for
better contrast and deep blacks. This display type is best suited to low light
environments where you can see the benefits of the technology.
What’s in the lid?

We’ve examined the types of technology used in laptop displays, but the lid also
contains some other necessary items that make sense being in the lid.

OLED on laptops
• Organic Light Emitting Diode
•• Organic compound emits light when receiving an electric current
• Thinner and lighter
•• Flexible and mobile - no glass needed
• No backlight - The organic compound provides the light
• Not quite ready for laptops
•• Organic materials degrade over time
•• Decayed images can remain on the screen
•• More costly and power hungry than LCD
== WiFi antenna connector/placement
WiFi Antenna Connector/Placement

It is important that antenna wiring be placed as high as possible to get the
best signal from within your laptop case. Typically, these wires wrap around the
outside edges of your display. This is also done to get the best signal
possible.

Wi-Fi Antenna

Your Wi-Fi antenna benefits greatly in range and performance if you can get it
up in the air an extra foot or two. Putting the Wi-Fi antenna in the lid makes a
lot of sense.

Wi-Fi antennas
• Multiple antennas - WiFi main and aux and Bluetooth
• Antenna wires wrap around the laptop screen

Wi-Fi Antenna Connector 
• 
The laptop antennas starts at the Wi-Fi card and are routed through the laptop hinges and 
into the screen assembly 
 
• 
Remove the laptop bottom access panel 
• 
Disconnect the antenna from the Wi-Fi card 
Remove the bottom or top cover
• 
Remove the screen bezel 
• 
Remove the antenna cable 
Reinstall the antenna 
• 
Route the antenna through the hinge 
• 
Connect the antenna to the Wi-Fi card 
• 
Reinstall the bezel and covers 

== Webcam

Webcam

Most laptops include a webcam that allows you to record audio and video. This is
usually integrated into the top area, around your display.

Webcam & Microphone

When it comes to webcam and microphone placement, the laptop lid is the ideal
location. This makes videoconferencing or chatting much more natural.

Laptop webcam
• Video capture - Built-in camera and microphone
• Usually includes both audio and video
•• Specialized drivers and software

Webcam 
• 
Webcam replacement follows similar steps to Wi-Fi antenna replacement 
• 
Typically, the webcam sits at the top of the screen and is part of a circuit board that contains 
the microphone 
• 
The webcam cable is routed through the hinge and connects to the system board 
• 
Remove the top or bottom cover and access panels 
• 
Remove the bezel 
• 
Remove the web cam cable 
• 
Remove the web cam from the top.  You may have to remove some screws. 
• 
Install the new camera. 
• 
Route the cable through the hinge and into the system board. 
Reinstall the bezel and covers.

== Microphone
Microphone

There is also a microphone built into most laptops that allows you to record
sound. This can be found in numerous locations, with some being a part of the
display and others found along the edges of your keyboard.


Microphone
• Built-in to the laptop
•• Useful for video calls
• Not good for non-casual use
•• Analog or USB microphones can help

Microphone 
• 
The laptop microphone and webcam are connected to the same circuit board 
• 
Follow the steps for replacing the webcam 

== Inverter
Inverter

An inverter is used with older display technology using CCFL (cold cathode
fluorescent) lamps. CCFL runs on AC power. This allows the DC power of the
laptop to be converted into the AC power needed for these display types.

Backlight and inverter
• LCD displays need a backlight
•• Florescent lamp to LCD display to your eyes
• Some laptops have inverters
•• Convert DC into AC
• Verify backlight
•• Look closely
• May need to replace the LCD inverter or display
•• Choose carefully

Inverter 
• 
Provides backlight for LCD 
 
• 
Only found on LCD screens, not OLED screens 
• 
Determine if the inverter is part of the LCD, or if it can be replaced separately 
• 
The inverter is located underneath the LCD, or at the bottom of the LCD 
 
• 
To replace the Inverter 
o Remove the bezel 
o Remove the cables connecting the inverter to the system board and to the LCD 

o Unscrew the inverter from the laptop 
o Install the new inverter 
o Reconnect the cables to the inverter 
o Reinstall the bezel 
== Digitizer/touchscreen

Digitizer/Touch Screen

This technology enables you to write directly on the display screen. You can
also emulate mouse and touchpad actions such as click, drag, and touchpad
gestures directly on the screen. This can be found mostly in devices that can
act as a hybrid laptop-tablet device.

Digitizer/touchscreen

A digitizer is a device, or even an overlay on your LCD panel, that takes
physical input, such as finger or stylus movement, and converts it digitally on
your display. For example, this device makes it possible to draw directly into a
graphics program. This is a great accessory for a graphic artist and provides
him/her the opportunity to create and digitally modify their creations. The
digitizer can be considered a touchscreen. 

Digitizer
• Use a pen-like device as input
•• Useful for graphical input
• Becoming more common on laptop / tablets
•• Or hybrid devices
Touchscreen
• Merge laptop and tablet input
•• No keyboard required
•• But often still available
• Many options for input
•• Use the best one for the job

Digitizer 
• 
The digitizer is a pane of glass that covers the laptop screen and provides touch capabilities 
• 
It is connected via a cable to the system board 
• 
Laptops with touch have a more solid feeling screen 
• 
An impact to the laptop could crack the digitizer 
• 
Determine if the digitizer can be removed 
o Some digitizers are glued to the LCD/OLED panel, in which case the entire screen 
(LCD and digitizer) must be replaced 
o You can melt the glue with a heat gun 
 
If you’re not careful, you could damage the LCD/OLED panel 
 
You could also crack the glass 
• 
Laptops with digitizers typically don’t have bezels 
• 
To replace the digitizer 
o Remove the top or bottom cover 
o Remove the screws which may be covered by stickers, or remove the screen with a 
spudger 
o Disconnect the digitizer cable from the system board 
o If the digitizer and LCD are glued together, it’s possible to remove the glue by melting 
it with a heat gun 
o Install the new digitizer 
o Reconnect the digitizer cable to the system board 
o Install the LCD assembly 
o Reinstall the top or bottom cover 
