= 1.6 Given a scenario, configure basic mobile device network connectivity and application support.

Mobile Device Connectivity and Applications (scenario)

You must be able to connect mobile devices to a network and configure applications supporting the connection in a given scenario.

IMPORTANT NOTE: One area NOT explicitly listed on the objectives that should be there concerns Short Message Service (SMS) and the evolution of Multimedia Message service (MMS). SMS, otherwise known as text messaging, is a practice that should only be undertaken when you can provide your attention to it, i.e. not while you are driving (the statistics on this are seriously alarming). Smartphone communications are responsible for more driving injuries and fatalities than drunk driving! We’ll leave that there and consider this a Public Service Announcement from DTI Publishing to you. Although it has not on the test so far, it’s likely to be on the way to the test. Do take heed. Ok, so now on to the actual goods…

== Wireless/cellular data network(enable/disable)

Wireless/Cellular Data Network

Mobile devices have become a common link to the rest of the world. You must know how to enable and disable network services, explain how tethering sets up hotspots to share data and connections, and understand Airplane mode when traveling.

Wireless / cellular data network (enable/disable)

Here we will look at a few wireless data device configurations and usages. For this section, consider an anonymous mobile device and service provider. The mobile service plan has unlimited 4G LTE service on calls and data. The unlimited calls and data factor is a consideration when we talk about sharing services.

Wireless / cellular data network
• Your phone has an Internet connection
•• Use your mobile provider network
•• Take advantage of this connectivity

How to configure a wireless/cellular data network 
• 
Cellular network 
o The cellular data network settings are usually obtained automatically from the SIM 
card/cellular network 
o If not, access the Cellular options from the phone’s option menu 
o Options to configure are the APN name, and a few other settings.  You can obtain the 
correct settings from the carrier. 
• 

Wi-Fi 
o Go to Options and choose Wi-Fi 
o Choose the correct SSID 
o The phone will attempt to connect.  You will need to enter the password or 
username/password combination for the SSID 
o If you’re attempting to connect to a hidden SSID, you must enter the SSID/password 
manually 
o The Wi-Fi menu shows you the signal strength of each Wi-Fi network 
o Some phones aren’t compatible with 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz networks 
=== Hotspot
Hotspot

A mobile hotspot allows wireless connections to your phone for the purpose of tethering.

Hotspot

In general, the term hotspot refers to an area where you can wirelessly connect to the internet and other application layer services such as email, messaging, and social media. Many businesses, including prominent coffee houses, offer this service as a way to encourage patrons to extend their stay at their location, providing additional sales opportunities that a grab and go patron would not be exposed to. Having a delicate, icing drizzled pastry in your field of vision will have an effect on you. It won’t be long before you’re back at the counter either for a refill or that pastry!

Depending on the device’s capabilities, your own wireless device can be turned into a hotspot. With your own hotspot, you can have a completely supported wireless business meeting with a small group at a park or a lake, anywhere but that conference room. In most cases, the device sharing the hotspot will have its internet capability disabled. Bandwidth will not reflect the full capacity of the host and battery life will be impacted.

• Hotspot
•• Turn your phone into a WiFi Router
•• You may have to pay extra phone charges
•• Other devices connect to  your phone via WiFi

 
Tethering/Hotspot 
o Tethering allows you to connect your phone to another phone or computer via USB 
or Bluetooth for the purposes of sharing data 
o A Hotspot allows you to connect your phone to another phone or computer via Wi-Fi 
for the purposes of sharing an internet connection 
o Go to Options and choose the USB tethering or Configure Wi-Fi hotspot option 



=== Tethering
Tethering

Tethering uses your phone’s cellular network to provide service to another device.

Tethering

This technique allows you to connect your cellphone to a laptop or tablet through USB or Bluetooth, enabling devices using the phone’s cellular connection to provide mobile connectivity to another device. This connection is a one to one connection share. Good for essential connectivity, this connection type offers limited bandwidth and if used over a Bluetooth connection, will drain the battery quickly.

Wireless / cellular data network
• Tethering
•• Anchored to your mobile device
•• Connect your laptop via USB or Bluetooth
•• Single connection
•• May require additional services from phone provider

o You can select the following options 
 
SSID name 
 
Security type 
Password
 
Devices that are blocked from connecting 
o The SSID and password are generated randomly by default, but you can change them 
to something that you will remember. 


=== Airplane Mode
Airplane Mode

The Airplane mode function key toggles WiFi, Bluetooth, and cellular on/off, simultaneously.

Airplane mode

If you suffer loss of connectivity, first check if that little airplane icon on your smartphone is showing. The first icon on your phone indicates that the device’s radios are capable of communication.

Airplane Mode On

The initial proliferation of cellular and Wi-Fi capable devices prompted a concern among airlines that these devices could interfere with the safe operation of the systems on an aircraft. Passengers were instructed to turn their devices off. Boring! Device manufacturers came up with a quick mode, called Airplane mode, which disables the offending radios. Pressing the airplane icon switches off all the external communication methods of the device.

Airplane Mode Off

Wireless / cellular data network 
• Airplane mode - One button turns off all radios
•• Cellular, WiFi, Bluetooth, NFC, etc.
• You can re-enable individual features without enabling cellular features
•• Useful when the airplane has WiFi
Wireless networks
• Enable and disable cellular, WiFi, and Bluetooth independently
•• Airplanes, conserve battery
• iOS - Settings / Cellular
• Android - Settings / Wireless & network settings

Airplane Mode 
o You can select “Airplane Mode” from the options to turn off all external 
communication (Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth, and Cellular) 
o You can enable or disable cellular data (when disabled, you may make and receive 
phone calls and SMS messages only).  This is useful when roaming and will incur 
additional charges. 
•

== Bluetooth
Bluetooth

When enabled on a mobile device, a Bluetooth connection allows you to create your own personal area network having a range of approximately 10 meters. To use Bluetooth, both devices must be within range and must be paired by entering the correct pin code. Understand how to enable Bluetooth, set up pairing, and locate other Bluetooth devices.

Bluetooth

Bluetooth has been around for some time, but never really realized its potential until mobile devices began using Bluetooth to establish short range communication between peripherals and other devices. The most significant and potentially lifesaving application of this technology came when Bluetooth was combined with hands free headsets, enabling hands free phone conversations. This made driving while talking much safer. This was enhanced when auto makers incorporated Bluetooth into the automobile’s features, allowing users to make calls without even looking at the phone. The technology is available in many devices including headphones, keyboards, and even some heart monitors. When two devices are connected together via Bluetooth, they are said to be paired. Up to 7 additional devices can connect, using a master/slave relationship, in a small network called a PAN (Personal Area Network), also referred to as a piconet. Here is an example of a Bluetooth headset waiting to pair and how a one to one connection works. The blue light on the left hand button will light when paired.

Bluetooth headset


Bluetooth
• Short-range personal area network (PAN)
•• About 10 meters
• Connect different devices
•• Mouse, keyboard, headset, computer, automobile, speakers
• Once paired, devices work together
•• Connect and disconnect automatically

Bluetooth 
• 
Select Bluetooth from the options menu 
• 
The Bluetooth menu shows you a list of paired Bluetooth devices 
• 
To add a new device 
o Choose “Scan for devices” on the phone 
o Choose “Scan for devices” on the device that you want to pair with (or put the device 
in pairing mode by pressing the Bluetooth button on it) 
o The phone will show you a list of detected devices 
o Choose the device that you want to pair with 
o You may be required to enter a password (the device that you’re attempting to pair 
with will provide you with a password) 
o The devices will connect together 
o You may need to configure additional settings, depending on the type of device 

=== Enable Bluetooth
Enable Bluetooth

Mobile devices typically have a Bluetooth item within the Settings menu. From there, you can enable Bluetooth. Most device also have shortcuts to enable Bluetooth, but they vary from device to device.

Enable Bluetooth

For starters, both devices must be Bluetooth capable and have Bluetooth enabled when initiated. In most cases, the device will actively search for devices to pair.

=== Enable pairing
Enable Pairing

The Bluetooth item in the Settings menu is also where you will enable pairing. Depending on the device, you enable pairing by selecting Scan for devices, add a Bluetooth device, or air. The accessory you are trying to pair should be in discoverable mode. Each accessory has its own method of enabling discoverable mode, so you will have to read the instructions.

Enable pairing

The devices must be set (initially) to discover nearby Bluetooth devices. In essence, one device must be discoverable for the other device to find it. Most devices enter this mode for 15 to 30 seconds when powered up. If the devices are set to automatically pair, you’ll be connected after a couple of easy clicks.



=== Find a device for pairing
Find a Device for Pairing

When pairing is enabled, the Bluetooth setting screen shows list of devices that are in discoverable mode. Select the device to pair.

Find device for pairing

One of the devices will initiate the paging process that will locate other device(s) and establish the parameters for the connection. Automatic pairing is not the best practice as it leaves you more susceptible to Bluetooth attacks such as Bluesnarfing and Bluejacking (covered later). Consider the environment you expect to be in and picture a 10 meter range around yourself.  Here, in three steps, is a Headset pairing to a PC.

Step 1 – Discovery

Step 2 – Pairing

Step 3 – Ready to go

Bluetooth pairing process
• Enable Bluetooth on both devices
•• Android and iOS: Settings / Bluetooth
• Set devices to discoverable mode
•• May require key sequence on Bluetooth device
• Select discovered device
•• Many devices may appear!
• Enter or confirm PIN
•• Should be the same on both devices
• Test connectivity
•• Devices should now communicate



=== Enter the appropriate PIN code
Pin Code

Some accessories require that a pin code be entered to pair with it. Each accessory has its own method of discovering the pin code, so you must read the instructions. At a point during the pairing process, you will have to enter the appropriate pin code.

Enter appropriate pin code

One way to protect your device from unauthorized access is the use of a passcode or PIN. Many devices require this to establish the Bluetooth connection. Your hands free car setup generally requires this as do most keyboards and other command and control peripherals. The problem with this is that the passcodes are so simple that they are practically guaranteed to be cracked. For example, you will encounter default codes such as 0000, 1111, or the most secure 1234. Most users don’t even think of changing it. Here’s a Tablet that has a decently complex PIN.

Bluetooth PIN


=== Test connectivity
Test Connectivity

When paired, you can test connectivity simply by using the accessory as intended to see if it works.

Test connectivity

Testing the connection can be as simple as trying the device. However, depending on your software, there may be in app connection testing available. In the app, you can see items such as connection speed, signal strength, and signal confirmation which are generally found under Settings/ Bluetooth. 3rd party programs are also available.

== Corporate and ISP email configuration
Corporate and ISP E-mail Configuration

You need to understand the difference between a corporate e-mail server using Exchange and an e-mail server provided by a local ISP, as well as how to make basic configurations to connect to each. Review the functions POP3 (port 110) and IMAP (port 143) protocols provided when retrieving e-mail and the use of SSL and S/MIME in providing security.

Corporate and ISP email configuration

There is no shortage of email service providers. You probably have multiple accounts. Your primary account is most likely provided by your ISP. Your employer will generally assign you one as well. If you need apps for your smartphone or tablet that are not provided by your OS developer, you will have another account. My only advice here is to not use the same password for all of your accounts since one compromised email password could expose all accounts.

Email configurations
• Retrieving mail - POP3, IMAP
• Sending mail - SMTP
• Corporate email - Microsoft Exchange
• Integrated providers
  • iCloud, Google, Exchange Online, Yahoo
Retrieving mail messages
• Post Office Protocol 3 (POP3)
  • Used for downloading mail to local mail client
  • Downloads and (optionally) deletes from server
• Configuration information
  • Name of POP3 server
  • Username and password
• Network ports
  • Defined by your mail provider
  • POP3: tcp/110
  • SSL (Secure Socket Layer) settings - POP3S: tcp/995 
• Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP4)
  • Access mail on a central server,
  • Mail is usually stored on the server
  • Supports folders and server-side searching
• Configuration information
  • Name of IMAP server
  • Username and password
• Network ports
  • Defined by your mail provider
  • IMAP: tcp/143
  • SSL (Secure Socket Layer) settings - IMAPS: tcp/993 
Sending email
• SMTP - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
• Send mail from a device to a mail server
  • Or between mail servers
  • You usually must send from a local or trusted device
• Authentication usually required
  • May be different credentials than the incoming mail
• Port numbers
  • SMTP (no authentication, relatively unused): tcp/25
  SMTP with authentication: tcp/587 
Microsoft Exchange
• Enterprise email
  • Not a service for the home
• More than just email
  • Contacts, Calendars, Reminders
• Integrates with mobile device database
  • Integrated contacts, calendars, etc.
• Configuration options
  • Email, server, domain, username, password
• Integrated message encryption with S/MIME
  • Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
  • Encrypt and digitally sign
Commercial email providers
• Gmail
  • Google email, splits inbox into tabs, IMAP4, POP3
• Exchange Online (hosted email) 
  • IMAP4 and POP3 support
• iCloud Mail - Apple Mail, IMAP4 support only
• Yahoo Mail - IMAP4 and POP3 support

E-mail Configuration 
• 
Android and iOS operating systems have default “Mail” apps 
• 
To set up an e-mail account 
o Choose Accounts from the Options menu 
o Choose the type of account 
 
o You must enter your username/password 
o The phone will automatically detect the additional settings 
o If detection fails, you may be prompted to enter the settings manually (username, 
password, e-mail server address, etc.) 
• 
You may choose to use another type of app (Outlook, Gmail) to access your e-mail 
Use another app 
  Install the e-mail app
o Add a new account inside the app 
o Enter username/password 
o App will attempt to detect settings automatically 
o If detection fails, you may be prompted to enter your settings manually 
o You can obtain the correct settings from your e-mail provider 

=== POP3
POP3

Post Office Protocol 3 (POP3) is a protocol used to receive mail from a mail server. Messages are deleted from the server by default after being retrieved from the server. This is a problem if you use multiple devices to receive mail. Most POP3 implementations allow you to change this default behavior. The standard port for POP3 is 110.

POP3

Receiving email is done over different protocols. There are two main protocols available depending on your service. The first is Post Office Protocol (POP) with the latest version being POP3. This protocol is responsible for the management, saving or deleting, of email messages on the server. The default mode in POP3 is to delete the message after delivery. Leaving messages on the server is useful if you use multiple devices for messaging.

E-mail communication protocols 
o POP3 
 
The server receives e-mail messages and holds them 
 
Your phone/device will download the messages from the server 
 
Once downloaded, the server deletes the messages 

=== IMAP
IMAP

Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) is another protocol used to receive mail. It allows more control of the e-mail server with options to save messages, create folders, and organize messages. The standard port for IMAP is 143.

IMAP

Today’s email user is probably using email on a collection of possible devices, tablet, smartphone, and laptop, as opposed to the traditional PC. If your smartphone downloads and deletes a work related email (POP3 default), you will have a problem when you check email on your PC or laptop because the email will be gone. The Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP), on TCP port 143, solves this problem by leaving the messages on the server regardless of the delivery status. Every device that checks will get the email. This is great unless you get spammed a lot. It’s possible that 18 out of 20 emails are junk and your server space will end up filling quickly. This calls for closer scrutiny of the undeleted messages on your server. You will have to move them to the trash folder and purge it, or configure the client to purge trash. Despite this, IMAP is the preferred client messaging protocol.

o IMAP 
 
The server “syncs” with the phone and possibly other devices, if you have 
multiple devices to access the same e-mail account 
 
When an item is created by or deleted on the phone/device, it is created on 
or deleted by the server 
 
The server syncs e-mails, contacts, and calendar items 



=== Port and SSL settings
Port and SSL Settings

In configuring the client/server connection, you must configure the ports and security settings. Most e-mail servers use the standard ports. Connection security is set by selecting the SSL type.

SSL settings

The Simple Mail Transport Protocol (SMTP) uses TCP port 25 for internet mail transmission. It is an internet standard protocol. Due to the proliferation of SPAM and other email related vulnerabilities, other ports can be used, most notably port 587. A secure nonstandard implementation of this protocol is SMTPS which is quite effective because it is one of the protocols that can utilize SSL (Secure Sockets Layer). SMTP is responsible for the transmission of email between servers and for sending email from a client. Other protocols are used to receive email on the client.

o Port and SSL Settings 
 
Port and SSL Settings are automatically detected by the e-mail app.  If 
detection fails, you must enter them in manually. 
 
The e-mail provider may have specific port settings for authentication. You 
must specify the port in use (common ports are 25 and 587, although an e-
mail provider may use a non-standard port) 
 
The e-mail provider use SSL (Secure Sockets Layer), TLS (Transport Layer 
Security), or no security.  You must specify the type of security in use 
o SMTP 
 
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol 
 
Protocol for sending messages only 
 
You must authenticate with the SMTP server to send messages 
Your SMTP username/password may be the same as your POP3 or IMAP 
account username/password 

=== S/MIME
S/MIME

Secure Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME) provides a means to send encrypted and digitally signed e-mail. This is done in corporate environments.

Exchange, S/MIME

Using S/MIME in Exchange provides encrypted authentication, message integrity, digital signatures, and overall message security. This can be enabled in Outlook under Tools/ Trust Center/ E-mail Security. The server will require it and without server support it will not work.

Here is a good example of the email configuration available on a Windows phone. Click Add An Account and follow the steps to configure your account(s). As you can see here, the user’s default email was created when he signed on to the device for the first time.

Mail menu on a smartphone

o S/MIME 
 
Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions 
 
Not actually an e-mail protocol 
 
Standard for public key encryption 
 
Allows an e-mail client to encrypt e-mail data 
o Microsoft Exchange 
 
Not mentioned in the outline, but very common in the corporate world 
 
Similar to IMAP 
 
Allows e-mail, contacts, and calendars to sync with the server 
 
Provides advanced features such as a global address directory, automatic e-
mail replies, photographs/job titles of recipients, conference room bookings, 
etc. 
 
Also integrates with Active Directory 



== Integrated commercial provider email configuration
Commercial Provider

Mobile devices include integration with other e-mail services such as iCloud, Yahoo, or Google. Yahoo Mail supports POP3 and IMAP, as does Outlook.com and Google Gmail. Apple iCloud only supports IMAP. The integrated commercial provider e-mail configuration to use these services varies based on the specific provider.

Integrated commercial provider email configuration

Commercial Email Provider Configuration 
• 
=== iCloud
iCloud

E-mail is one component of iCloud, so when you sign in to iCloud using your Apple ID, you can configure e-mail there. In most cases, the default settings will work, so you may not have to do any manual configuration. It is, of course, the default mail app in iPhones.

iCloud 
o Proprietary service offered by Apple for iOS users 
o Must pay a fee to use, and must pay additional fees depending on storage capacity 
used 
o iCloud allows you to back-up and sync your photos, passwords, documents and 
settings across multiple Apple devices 
o iCloud provides you with an optional @icloud e-mail account 
o iCloud account allows you to manage your phone 
o Users are prompted to set up an iCloud account or log in to an iCloud account when 
setting up a new iCloud device 
• 


=== Google/Inbox
Google/Inbox

As was the case with Apple and iCloud, Google makes it easy to configure Google mail, or Gmail. When you sign in to your Google account, the default settings should work without additional configuration. If not, you can manually configure it. Gmail is the default e-mail app on Android devices.

Note: Since the exam objectives were written, Google shut down Inbox. It is not yet known how that will impact the exam.

Google/Inbox

Google provides email under the gmail.com domain. If you use the chrome browser, you can access Gmail from your Start page or by simply entering gmail.com in your address bar. You will be prompted to sign in or to create an account. The Gmail program only needs to be installed if you plan to use it offline. By default, Gmail will synchronize your last 7 days of emails when installed.

Google/Inbox 
o A Google account can be used to manage an Android phone 
o Can add account from Settings/Accounts page (choose Google account) 
o Corporate Google Accounts (Google Apps for Business) can be used to manage 
corporate devices, prevent theft, remotely wipe phones, prevent unauthorized app 
installation, etc. 
o Google account will sync data, photos, messages, and settings.  Account can also 
detect stolen devices and provide GPS coordinates of missing phones 


=== Exchange Online
Exchange Online

Known better as Outlook or outlook.com, formerly Hotmail, it is the default mail app on Windows devices. A wizard is provided to guide you through configuration.

Exchange Online

Offered as an upgrade from Outlook.com, Exchange Online is available with Microsoft Office 365, providing additional security and reliability.
iCloud

More than just email, iCloud can be used to back up and store your data. If you have an AppleID, possibly created using a portable music player, you can use that to login to your iCloud.com account. Otherwise, create one and follow the steps in the wizard to get set up. You can select objects to synchronize at will on a schedule.

Outlook.com

Formerly Hotmail.com, Outlook.com is a hosted email program that is capable of deploying 3rd party apps. This is useful if you frequently require them. The installation is simple and is guided by a wizard.

Exchange Online 
o Part of Office 365, and sold by Microsoft (pay per user per month) 
 
Multiple options available depending on needs of organization 
o Functions on any phone (iOS or Android) 
o An administrator will create the Exchange account 
o Can set up the account in Outlook for Android/iOS or in the Accounts page on 
Android/iOS 
o Enter username/password, and the phone will automatically detect additional settings 
o Exchange will sync more data than IMAP, including corporate address book and away 
messages 
o Exchange works with Skype (allows you to send messages and make calls) 
• 
=== Yahoo
Yahoo

Unlike the others, Yahoo is not the default mail app on any mobile device. However, there is a Yahoo Mail app for just about any device. The app setup will walk you through the configuration.

Yahoo

Yahoo is available as an app or through the browser. Create an account at Yahoo.com, click the mail button while online, and off you go. Follow the setup wizard to install the app, if desired.

Yahoo 
o Create a new Yahoo e-mail account on the Yahoo website 
o Set up the Yahoo account on the phone like any other account (as IMAP or POP3) 
o Yahoo mail is not a popular option among corporate or personal users 



== PRI update/PRL update/baseband update
Updates

PRI (Product Release Instruction) has the settings for device configurations specific to the cell network to which you are currently connected. PRL (Preferred Roaming List) refers to which cell towers to use while in roaming mode. Both are typically updated when the operating system of the mobile device is updated. Certain carriers support updating the PRL by dialing a certain sequence of numbers. The baseband operating system on a mobile device is needed to communicate with the radio hardware, which is similar to the hardware abstraction layer in Windows occasionally required updating.

PRI updates/PRL updates/Baseband updates
PRI Updates

The PRI (Product Release Instructions) is a document or webpage that provides the description for the software update process. It defines new or changed feature descriptions and how to implement the update. Always read this document to be sure the update doesn’t suddenly need access to your contacts or camera. This documentation is also helpful if an update has undesired side effects. You can review it for the possible cause.
PRL Update

The PRL is a database file stored in your cellular device. Called the Preferred Roaming List, this file stores the device’s performance carrier preferences regarding connection frequencies and other settings to be used on the connection.

Baseband Update

Baseband updates are applied to the modem firmware in your cellular device. It is not an OS update, although this update can be rolled with the general OS update when necessary.
 
Phone updates
• PRL updates
•• Preferred Roaming List
•• CDMA networks (i.e., Verizon, Sprint)
•• Allows your phone to connect to the right tower
•• Can be updated over the air (OTA)
• PRI updates
•• Product Release Instructions
•• Radio settings - ID numbers, network codes, country codes, etc.
•• Also updated over the air

PRI Updates/PRL Updates/Baseband Updates 
 
• 
Updates 
o The phone contains software/hardware including a processor, memory, RAM, etc. 
o The phone also contains a hardware radio for communicating with the cell tower 
o The phone manufacturer will regularly release updates for the phone’s operating 
system and/or hardware 
o The phone will automatically check for updates and prompt you to download/install 
them 
 
Typically, download updates when connected to Wi-Fi and install them when 
you aren’t using the phone 
• 
PRI Updates 
o Primary Rate Interface 
o Provides communication between the phone and the phone’s hardware radio 
o The communication program requires software updates 
• 
PRL Updates 
o Preferred Roaming List 
o Contains a list of radio frequencies that the phone can broadcast on 
o When you travel with a phone to a different network, or when the carrier upgrades 
their network, the phone will automatically download a new list 
o Sometimes a manual update is necessary.  You can manually obtain an update by 
dialing a specific number.  For example, on a Verizon network, dial *228. 
• 
Baseband Updates 
o Chip that controls GSM and 3G/4G/5G phone radio waves 
o The software that runs on the baseband chip is separate from the software that runs 
on the phone (Android or iOS) 
o Software updates are made available, which improve stability and battery life 


== Radio firmware
Radio Firmware

The baseband operating system is the interface between the mobile phone and the radio and is often referred to as radio firmware.

Radio firmware

Radio firmware controls the parameters of your cellular and/or Wi-Fi signal. When problems exist with the device connections, a firmware upgrade often resolves the issue. Be careful and ensure that there is uninterrupted power throughout the process and that you don’t interfere in any way. Treat the radio firmware the same way you would a PC’s CMOS ROM. Any problem during the update could render the device useless (brick). Be careful.

Your phone is a radio
• Baseband radio processor
•• A network interface for your radio
•• This isn’t WiFi or Bluetooth
• Has its own firmware and memory
•• Quite proprietary
• Real-time operating system
•• Everything happens very quickly as needed
• The firmware can be updated
•• Over the air (OTA)
•• Invisible to the end user

Radio Firmware 
 
• 
The firmware works with the operating system to control Wi-Fi, GPS, NFC, and other types of 
connectivity 
• 
Phone manufacturers release new versions of the firmware, which improve connectivity and 
battery life 
• 
You can manually download a firmware update and install it.  Connect the phone to a 
computer and run the firmware update utility. 
• 
In many newer phones, the Firmware is controlled by the Operating System 

== IMEI vs. IMSI
IMEI vs. IMSI

IMEI is the International Mobile Equipment Identifier, a 15-digit number that uniquely identifies a mobile device, similar to a MAC address on a NIC (Network Interface Card). If a device is lost or stolen, this allows it to be deactivated. IMSI is the International Mobile Subscriber Identity, a 15-digit number that describes the user and the network.

IMEI vs. IMSI

Yes more acronyms. These are relatively simple. You know that each device on a network must have a unique identifier. Equally in the interconnected environment today, each mobile device, such as phones or tablets, on the planet has to have a unique hardware identifier. This is known as the IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identifier) and is a number that is unique worldwide and assigned by the manufacturer. The IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identifier) operates under the same principle of uniqueness, but is assigned to the user or cellular subscriber. This number will be assigned by your service provider and stored on your device’s SIM card, making it portable. This means if you upgrade to a device that uses a compatible SIM card, your IMEI will change and your IMSI won’t. Simply put, the IMEI is the phone and the IMSI is you.

IMEI
• International Mobile Station Equipment Identity
• Identifies a physical mobile device
• Every phone has a different IMEI
• Can be used to allow or disallow access
 IMSI
• International Mobile Subscriber Identity
• Identifies the user of a mobile network
• Can be provisioned in the SIM card
  • Swap the SIM to move between phones

IMEI vs. IMSI 
 
• 
IMEI 
o International Mobile Equipment Identity  
o Unique 15-digit number for identifying a phone 
o When a phone connects to a cellular network, it shares its IMEI number 
o The cellular network uses the IMEI to uniquely identify each phone, and can block 
stolen phones 
• 
IMSI 
o International Mobile Subscriber Identity 
o Unique 15-digit number that identifies a SIM card 
o The SIM is inserted into the phone 
o When the phone connects to the cellular network, it shares the IMSI number on the 
SIM 
o The SIM is lined to a mobile phone subscriber 
o The cellular provider uses the IMSI to bill the correct subscriber for the usage 

== VPN

VPN

VPN is a Virtual Private Network setup using a public network, providing security on an otherwise insecure network.


VPN

VPNs (Virtual Private Network) are useful in the mobile environment. They provide highly secure connections from unlikely locations, basically anywhere with cellular service. By providing a secure tunnel for your connection, its integrity and security are assured.

VPN
• Turn your phone into a VPN endpoint
• Important for secure communication
• Integrated into the phone OS
• No additional software required
• May require some additional setup
• Detailed configuration settings
• May support multifactor authentication
  RSA SecureID

VPN 
 
• 
A VPN is a Virtual Private Network 
• 
A VPN allows a device to connect to a corporate network, even if it is not physically present 
on the network 
• 
Allows users who travel or work from home to access resources on the corporate network 
• 
VPN creates a tunnel between the device and the corporate network and routes all traffic 
through the tunnel 
• 
You can set up a VPN connection on a cellular phone or tablet 
You can create the VPN in the Settings menu 
o Choose VPN from settings 
o You can create multiple VPN connections 
o Enter the correct details for the VPN 
You can install a separate VPN application 
