= 2.5 – Compare and contrast social engineering, threats, and vulnerabilities.
== Social Engineering
=== Phishing
=== Spear phishing
=== Impersonation
=== Shoulder surfing
=== Tailgating
=== Dumpster diving
== DDoS
== DoS
== Zero-day
== Man-in-the-middle
== Brute force
== Dictionary
== Rainbow table
== Spoofing
== Non-compliant systems
== Zombie

Social Engineering, Threats, and Vulnerabilities

You should be able to compare and contrast different types of threats, social engineering, and vulnerabilities when taking this test. Following are details about these issues.
Social Engineering

Social engineering is the fraudulent act of manipulating individuals into giving you unauthorized access to a building or room, or giving you private information.

Phishing— Phishing is the most common type of social engineering. In a phishing attack, the attacker sends a fraudulent email pretending to be from a legitimate source such as a colleague, vendor, or even a user’s bank. The goal of a phishing attempt is to get the unsuspecting user to give up their private information.

Spear Phishing— A spear phishing attack is a targeted phishing attack. In most phishing attacks, the phishing email will be sent out in bulk hoping to get users to bite. In a spear phishing attack, the attacker has done research on the target and has crafted a phishing email specifically for them.

Impersonation— One common social engineering tactic is impersonation. Social engineers will often pretend to be someone else to gain access to what they are looking for. One example of this would be an attacker pretending to be from your Internet provider asking for access to your network closet.

Shoulder Surfing— Shoulder surfing is the act of stealing a person’s data by looking over their shoulder as they type in private information on a computer or a code into a door or ATM.

Tailgating— Social engineers will sometimes “tailgate” or follow another person into a building. This means sneaking into a locked door right behind a person who has permission to enter. Sometimes, the social engineer may carry boxes so that an individual, who is just trying to be polite, will unlock and hold the door open for them.

Dumpster Diving— Businesses and individuals throw away a lot of valuable information that can be used by an attacker. When an attacker digs through the trash hoping to find private information that wasn’t shredded, this is known as dumpster diving.
Other Concepts and Considerations
DDoS

A distributed denial of service (DDOS) is a denial of service attack in which multiple computers (often a botnet) are used to send an abundance of traffic in an attempt to bring down a network’s resources.
DoS

This refers to a denial of service attack in which a large amount of meaningless traffic is sent in an attempt to overburden and bring down a device or network.
Zero-Day

A zero-day attack is one that targets a vulnerability for which developers have not had time to release a patch for or fix yet.
Man-in-the-Middle

A man-in-the-middle (MiTM) attack is an eavesdropping attack. The attacker will try to plant himself/herself between two systems and intercept the traffic.
Brute Force

In a brute force attack, the attacker will attempt to guess as many of the possible values as they can. Brute force is generally used as a method of password cracking, but can be used in some other scenarios as well.
Dictionary

One form of a brute force attack is known as a dictionary attack. Rather than the attacker trying to come up with passwords to guess themselves, they can use a list of all leaked passwords online (known as a dictionary) and try them instead.
Rainbow Table

A rainbow table is a database of a plaintext passwords and their corresponding hash values. This can be used in a brute force attack.
Spoofing

Spoofing is a form of an impersonation attack. Some commonly spoofed items include source IP address, source MAC address, source email address, and usernames.
Non-Compliant Systems

Non-compliant software or systems can pose a threat to an organization’s network. It’s important to fix non-compliant devices as soon as you notice them.
Zombie

A zombie is another word for a bot. This is a computer that has been taken over by an attacker and can be used for malicious activities.


Social engineering

Social engineering can be best described as influencing the actions of others by gaining their confidence and trust. Once trust has been gained, the attacker (or your new friend) gets the target to disclose information or provide access to a network or a computer. It is widely known that in the security world, a human can always be considered the weakest link in any defense.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Whether it is an email or a phone call, it is imperative that any user reconsider any invitations by thinking, taking their time, and by trusting no one. The user may have a friend whose email has been hijacked. An email from anyone, known or unknown, needs to be examined with the same level of care.
Phishing

Phishing is an overt attempt to trick a user into doing something stupid that will compromise their personal information. A form of social engineering, phishing works by sending an email containing a malicious attachment or hyperlink.

A typical phishing email will contain malicious content. However, a phishing email can be easily recognizable if the end user notices typographical errors and bad grammar in the message. Furthermore if an email is received that contains a hyperlink, hover over the link with the mouse cursor in order to confirm the URL instead of blindly trusting the benign text label of the link.

Always report phishing attacks to the appropriate party. For example, if a phishing (spoof) email is received from a seemingly known entity, look carefully at the email and examine the grammar and spelling. Also check the general appearance of the email. A phishing email will look less than perfect in several ways, especially the graphics/logos which will look fuzzy and less crisp. Stop and Think before You Click. If you suspect an email as a phishing attempt, send it to the party being spoofed. Phishing and Spear phishing are prime vehicles for assorted malware.
Spear phishing

Spear phishing targets specific groups for attack based on things they have in common, e.g. where specific people work in addition to where they shop or where they do their banking. This specific piece of information adds trust to the phishing communication if the user is not careful. In the example shown below, Charles Schwab is the entity that “legitimizes” the message. If you look at the message carefully, scan the header information for irregularities which are definitely present. The sender’s return address has very little to do with the reported company. Always look past the name and check the actual sender’s address. The recipient is incorrect since you (probably) don’t work for Charles Schwab. Also, the message body begins with an image. Images in the message body can be hyperlinks to malicious sites.

This particular email client is set to block imbedded images and to display them on demand, giving the user a chance to analyze the message. The email asks to the user to log in through a link in order to verify recent activity information. Finally, the hyperlink address is anything but legitimate. The link will go to or through a middle-man (see below) that will capture all the data that is being entered. This holds true for both phishing attack types, however, the spear phishing attack targets a more specific group of users.

Schwab Phish
Impersonation

Impersonation is the practice of misrepresenting oneself by using a false IP address or more commonly, a false email address. The person being spoofed does not realize immediately that the email address is fake. For any impersonation email, always read the email carefully and think about what you are being asked to do. Is the request legitimate? Would your employer really need your social security number or is it more likely to be on your job application? Microsoft does not email or call you. The FBI does not call you. They will knock if you are lucky. Consider the source and think before you click.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002
Shoulder surfing

Shoulder surfing is the time-honored method of capturing usernames and/or passwords by simply looking over a person’s shoulder. This is a surprisingly effective technique and can also be used at ATM’s.
Tailgating

Tailgating occurs when an unauthorized party closely follows the secure access of an authorized party enough in order to appear as a single entity to security systems. This attack is seemingly innocent, even courteous to a point since the authorized party holds the door open. This term also covers when an unauthorized party commandeers an authorized party’s workstation while they are away from it.

Dumpster Diving

This is the process of examining a company’s bulk trash for confidential data. Interestingly, this is legal for the most part. A carelessly discarded hard disk may contain financial data or business plans, yet is treated the same as a discarded table lamp! Shred documents and destroy physical storage before discarding.

DoS

Denial of Service (DoS) is an attack on a server, disrupting normal traffic by flooding the server with more TCP/UDP requests than it can process. There are several DoS attack types:

Buffer overflow

In this case, the attacker overwhelms a network address with traffic until it fails.

ICMP flood

In this case, network devices are compromised and are used to send ICMP ping packets throughout the network, flooding it with traffic. This is also called The Ping of Death.

SYN flood

In this attack, multiple connection requests are sent to a server. However, the attacker does not complete the handshake and eventually overloads the server, preventing legitimate connections from happening.

DDoS

Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks use the same methods as DoS. Multiple locations are used to attack, making it difficult to pinpoint the attacker due to the large number of systems at their disposal. Often, these attacks use computers that have been compromised with malware and are controlled by the attacker without the user’s knowledge. These compromised systems are called Zombies.
Zero day attack

A Zero day attack is an exploit of an operating system or software vulnerability that is unknown to and unpatched by the author of the product. The name of this attack comes from the fact that there is no warning of the attack. This is compounded by the fact that the attack will be successful until it is discovered and patched by the vendor. It does not take long for a zero day attack to be effective considering the time it takes to program a patch and get it distributed to the public. These attacks can take place between the time they are discovered and when the patch is issued. 
Man-in-the-middle

A Man-in-the-middle (MitM) attack uses a webserver that is in the path between the client and its destination. All client Internet activity is processed through the malicious server while it quickly skims the personal data for anything of value. Man-in-the-middle attacks are generally transparent to the client and the server. If you feel like you are a victim of MitM, look at the lag time between a page request and its delivery. Also, compare the displayed content on a frequently used site with another PC running the same software. Any loss of image quality or access speed are signs of possible MitM. When removing, treat this as any other malware. Many AV packages offer a “Real Site” or similar mode where links can be checked for their validity.
Brute forcing

Brute forcing (Brute Force Cracking) can be best described as cracking a username, password, or even a Wi-Fi encryption protocol or decryption key by trial and error. This results in repeated evaluation through the use of a pre-defined set of values. Use long and complex passwords to defend against this attack. 
Dictionary attacks

Dictionary attacks are a form of brute force attack that uses words found in the dictionary in order to discover passwords and decryption keys. In this case, avoid using words found in the dictionary for security. It is helpful to use a mix of upper and lower case letters along with numbers and special characters (!@#$%). 
Rainbow table

This attack uses a list of plaintext passwords along with the encrypted hash list. Most organizations store only the hashed passwords while the attacker needs a stolen hashed password list. When the attacker has a hash to plaintext match, the attacker is free to attack. 
Non-compliant systems

In order to protect their assets, businesses set system compliance standards and monitor host configurations. This assures that all attached systems meet a certain pre-defined level of antivirus updates, system and application security patches, along with up-to-date drivers for the hardware. Monitoring is performed by a configuration reporting tool installed on the host. The configuration report is sent to the configuration monitor and scanned for compliance. Any system reporting missing or out of date software, antivirus, or old drivers is considered to be a non-compliant system and is therefore determined to be in violation of best security practices.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

And with this, we will wrap up 220-1002 sub-objective 2.5 “Compare and contrast social engineering, threats, and vulnerabilities.” Hopefully, this post will add to your A+ skills and will provide you with additional insights you can use to protect yourself and your clients against omnipresent threats. Good luck on the test! 
