= 2.7 Compare and contrast Internet connection types, network types, and their features.


Connection and Network Types

For this exam, you should understand the specific networks and Internet
connections listed below and understand the differences between them.


Welcome to CertBlaster ExamNotes! This section will cover CompTIA A+220-1001
sub-objective 2.7. We will look at Internet connection types and features.
Everything in the objective statement will be covered here. Let’s get to it!


== Internet connection types
Internet Connection Types

There are a number of ways that you can connect to the Internet.

Internet Connection Types

Once limited to the plain old telephone service (POTS) dial-up connection,
internet connectivity has woven its way into our daily existence. It’s hard for
some of us to imagine now having to go home to access a webpage or email. Here
is how it breaks down.


=== Cable
Cable—uses coaxial lines paired with a cable modem to bring in Internet service

Cable

The cable internet connection is a broadband, high speed internet connection
that is always on. It uses a cable modem that communicates over the same line
that carries the cable television signal and is capable of very high speeds
depending on your service agreement. Cable modems can support voice and data and
can be wired or wireless depending on your preference. Typically, a cable modem
can give up to 160Mbps depending on the plan.

Cable 
Delivered over a coaxial cable 
Requires a cable modem 
Speeds up to 300 Mbps 
May have high latency 
Most urban areas have cable 
 
 
 
=== DSL
DSL—uses existing phone lines paired with a digital subscriber line (DSL) modem
to bring in Internet service

DSL

DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) uses the existing ordinary copper telephone lines
(POTS). In its basic configuration, DSL feeds three signals to and from the DSL
modem. The first two 64Kbps channels provide 128Kbps for data. These can be
split to carry voice on one line and data over the other, allowing internet and
phone services to be used at the same time. The third line carries command and
control data, consuming very little bandwidth.

DSL is an “always on” connection type and there is no need to dial-up the
connection. There is a variety of DSL technology available but all use the same
infrastructure cabling for communication. The later versions of DSL use
different techniques to achieve higher speeds. One method is Symmetric Digital
Subscriber Line (SDSL) which allows for equal upload and download rates. SDSL
can reach theoretical speeds up to 22Mbps. Another method is Asymmetrical
Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) where the upstream and downstream speeds are not
the same. This allows the provider to adjust the data rate according to what the
customer is willing to pay for, maxing out at 640Kbps upstream and up to 24Mbps
downstream. A variation of SDSL is VSDL (very-high-bit-rate Digital Subscriber
Line) which is capable of up to 70Mbps over short distances.

DSL 
Digital Subscriber Line 
Delivered over a phone line (can use phone and 
DSL internet at the same time) 
Requires a DSL modem 
Speeds up to 150 Mbps 
May have high latency 
Most urban areas have DSL, and so do many 


=== Dial-up
Dial-up—old technology that connected to the Internet over phone lines using
analog modems

Dial-up

Dial-up technology has been around since the beginning. Dial-up uses POTS lines,
as does DSL, but the connection is not persistent. Dial-up requires a modem
(modulate/demodulate) to modulate the digital signal from a PC to the analog
waveform used by the phone lines. On the receiving end, the signal is converted
back to digital or demodulated. Dial-up modem speeds began at 14.4Kbps,
increasing to 28.8, and with v92 technology achieved a blistering 56.6 Kbps.
Each of those speed increases were greatly anticipated and considered
groundbreaking in the pre-broadband era.

Delivered over a phone line (can’t use internet 
and phone at the same time) 
Can be very slow (speeds up to 56 Kbps) 
May be good as a back-up to a DSL connection 
Doesn’t require much infrastructure; it functions 
anywhere a phone line is available 
 
=== Fiber
Fiber—uses fiber optic lines to connect to the Internet

Fiber

Fiber optics provide the highest bandwidth currently available, in the range of
up to 43 terabits per second depending on the provider. This is made possible
mainly by the capacity of the media and by the fact that the line is dedicated.
The line is yours and yours alone, point to point. This connection requires
complete fiber directly from the ISP to your building and onto the device. No
copper is permitted at any point.

Fiber 
Delivered over a fiber optic cable 
Requires a media converter to convert fiber to 
copper (ethernet) and a modem/router 
Fiber is not available in all areas, but internet 
providers are installing fiber in more areas 
Speeds up to 1 Gbps 
Low latency 
 
 

=== Satellite
Satellite—a high-latency service, useful for remote destinations, that connects
to the Internet via satellite


Satellite

Satellite communication takes advantage of satellites orbiting the earth in a
geosynchronous orbit, an orbit where the satellite has the same fixed position
relative to Earth. There are over 400 satellites orbiting in this manner. Most
of these satellites are communications satellites which deliver voice, data,
video, and internet. Typically, these connections max out at 15Mbps. The
required equipment consists of a roof mounted satellite dish, aimed at the
target satellite, and a receiver (or transceiver) to send and receive data.

Line of Sight

Satellite and long range wireless internet transmissions require an unobstructed
line of sight between the devices. They can also be impacted by severe weather
and are not the best choice for live streaming.

Satellite 
Satellite internet has widespread coverage, but it 
can be expensive and unreliable 
The satellite requires a “line of sight”.  The 
satellite receiver equipment must have a clear 
line of sight with the sky. 
A satellite receiver provides a “two way” connection
The connection is high latency
The connection is expensive


=== ISON
ISDN—Integrated Services Digital Network that had been used in business
communication over T1 lines but is being replaced with other services

ISDN

Chances are slim that you will encounter ISDN (Integrated Services Digital
Network) in the field. ISDN was aimed at the business class user in the
pre-broadband era. ISDN bandwidth is up to 128Kbps.

Integrated Services Digital Network 
Old system 
Allows at least two simultaneous connections 
(data, voice, video or fax) over a single phone 
line 
Provides 128 kbits/s 
 
 
 
=== Cellular
Cellular—uses a mobile service provider’s cellular network to connect to the
Internet

Cellular

Cellular communication takes place over a CDMA (Carrier Sense Multiple Access)
network of fixed antennae which are placed strategically to provide the best
coverage areas in North America. International satellites, in conjunction with
CDMA, are used in the GSM (Global System for Mobile Technology) standard which
prevails in the rest of the “covered” world. Cellular service, in any of its
varieties (later), is the largest wireless internet connection type in the
world.

2G cellular is actually slower than dial up on paper. Speeds may vary but don’t
expect more than 50Kbps on this connection. The next advance was 2G E or 2G EDGE
(Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution) which brought the speed up to 384Kbps. Then
came 3G which is a noteworthy improvement when properly implemented. Speeds are
between 200K and 4Mbps. However, check for the latest revision of the standard.
The hands-down winner currently is 4G (LTE or WiMAX) and will get between
100Mbps and 1Gbps. 4G LTE is the fastest combination and you are likely to
encounter more LTE implementations than WiMAX.

Cellular 
Delivered through a cellular modem 
Speeds of up to 100 Mbits/s 
Can be expensive because you must pay per GB 
of bandwidth used 
Latency is high 
Available anywhere you can get a cell 
connection.  Some remote areas don’t have 
Popular cellular modems include Cradlepoint 

==== Tethering
    Tethering—Tethering uses your phone’s cellular network to provide service to
    another device.

Tethering

This technique allows you to connect your cellphone to a laptop or tablet
through USB or Bluetooth, enabling the device to use the phone’s cellular
connection to provide mobile connectivity to another device. This connection is
a one to one connection share. Good for essential connectivity, this connection
type offers limited bandwidth and if used over a Bluetooth connection, will
quickly drain the battery.


==== Mobile hotspot
    Mobile hotspot—Setting up a phone or other device as a hotspot allows other
    devices to use the phone’s cellular Internet connection. The other devices
    can connect to the hotspot using WiFi or by tethering the phone to the
    device.

Mobile Hotspot

Depending on the device’s capabilities, your own wireless phone can be turned
into a mobile hotspot. You can have a completely supported wireless business
meeting with a small group at a park or a lake, i.e. anywhere but the conference
room. Most importantly, in most cases the device sharing the hotspot will have
its internet capability disabled. Bandwidth will not reflect the full capacity
of the host and battery life will be impacted.


=== Line-of-sight wireless Internet services
Line-of-Sight Wireless Internet Service

Line-of-Sight (LOS) wireless Internet service, also known as fixed wireless
Internet, uses low-power radio frequency signals to connect to a service
provider’s antenna. There must be a clear path between your antenna and the
provider’s antenna.

Also known as Point-to-Point 
Works with a range of up to 25 KM 
Requires two antennas – one to send internet, 
one to receive.  The sender must be connected 
to an internet connection 
Good for rural areas 
Requires the antennas to have a line of sight 
(doesn’t work if there are trees or walls in the 
way) 
Can be expensive if you’re paying an ISP to 
provide the Line of Sight connection 
If you own the infrastructure (the sender and the 
receiver), such as if you’re connecting two 
buildings, then there wouldn’t be a monthly 

== Network types
Network Types

Networks types define the general area that is covered by a network

Network Types

Networks are classified by several factors in order to identify their purpose.
Technically, a network can consist of two computers as long as they can
communicate with each other. On the smallest scale, a LAN exists if you were to
connect to your desktop, which has its printer shared, in order to print content
from your laptop. The network types discussed can be wired, wireless, or both.


=== LAN
LAN—local area network; typically within one site; does not traverse routers

LAN

A Local Area Network (LAN) exists when one or more PCs or wireless devices are
connected and share resources and services with each other. Good examples of
this network type are businesses that can interconnect one or more buildings and
their users (hosts). There may be one printer on each floor that the users can
access through the LAN.

Local Area Network 
This is the internal network for the home or 
office 
Devices on this network typically are assigned 
private IPs 
 
=== WAN
WAN—wide area network; comprises multiple LANs across several sites with no
geographical limitations; may be a private corporate WAN; the Internet is a WAN

WAN

A Wide Area Network (WAN) is the polar opposite of a LAN. A WAN can have many
users and small networks. The key distinction in a WAN is that the users are
spread over a large geographical area. The most extreme version of a WAN is the
Internet where billions of users can access the resources made available by
millions of other networks.

WAN 
Wide Area Network 
Allows multiple LANs to connect to each other, 
even if they are far apart 
A WAN requires low latency 
Devices on a WAN act as if they are all on the 
same LAN 
Requires negotiation with ISP/multiple ISPs to 
carry the traffic between the different LANs, and 
to do so at a low latency 
 

=== PAN
PAN—personal area network; connects personal or IoT devices such as a smartphone
to a headset; Bluetooth, Zigbee, and Z-Wave are used to form PANs

PAN

A Personal Area Network (PAN) is a very short range network consisting of
personal devices. Generally speaking, this is a Bluetooth configuration and can
be made up of personal heart and activity monitors connected to a cell phone.
The cell phone can in turn connect to a laptop via Bluetooth and create another
PAN. The key distinction here is the short range and personal nature of the
connection.

PAN 
Personal Area Network 
Network between devices belonging to a single 
user or in a specific workspace 
 

=== MAN
MAN—metropolitan area network; A type of WAN that is confined to a small region

MAN

A Metropolitan Area Network (MAN) covers a large geographical area such as a
city or metropolis. MANs are created by cities and municipalities to provide
essential connectivity during power outages or other catastrophic events that
would interrupt a traditional WAN. They are reliable and redundant.

MAN 
Municipal Area Network 
Larger than a LAN but smaller than a WAN 
Can use Point-to-Point connections to connect 
them 
Typically, LANs in a single city can form a MAN 
 

=== WMN
WMN—wireless mesh network; allows individual wireless access points to connect
in a mesh network so that any network needs only to connect as far as the next
access point

WMN

A Wireless Mesh Network (WMN) consists of wireless mobile devices communicating
in a radio based, cable free network. WMN networks do not require a centralized
server and are similar to ad-hoc networks. Data is passed from node to node
without using a WAP or gateway.

WMN 
Wireless Mesh Network 
Multiple access points can work together to 
repeat a signal.  APs not connected to the main 
network can still broadcast/receive a signal if 

