= 3.10 Given a scenario, configure SOHO multifunction devices/printers and
settings.



SOHO Devices and Printers (scenario)

Multifunction devices and printers are suitable for small office home office
(SOHO) use. They save cost and take up less space by combining multiple
functions into a single device. You should be familiar with configuring these
types of devices.

to install a printer in Windows - USB • Best practice based on many years of
experience • Plug the printer into the computer • Go to the manufacturer’s
website and download the latest software application compatible with your
operating system • Run the installation • The software will automatically detect
and install the printer 

rinter in Windows – Network/Corporate Environment • Set a static IP address on
the printer and connect it to the network.  Why a static IP?  If the printer is
on DHCP and the address changes, users will have trouble connecting.  • Go to
Devices & Printers or Printers & Scanners 
 
• Choose to “Add a new Printer” o Windows will automatically search for new
printers (USB and network) o Choose “The printer wasn’t listed” o Enter the IP
address of the printer 
 
• Windows will connect to the printer and automatically select a driver • In
rare cases, Windows won’t be able to locate the correct driver o Download the
correct driver from the manufacturer’s website o Choose “Have Disk” and select
the driver that you downloaded • Windows will install the driver hoose a
meaningful name for the printer 

 install a printer in Windows – Network/Corporate Environment (Shared Printer) •
 Browse to the hostname of the computer that shares the printer • Double-click
 on the printer that you want to share == Use appropriate drivers for a given
 operating system Use Appropriate Drivers for a Given Operating System

To get the most out of a multifunction device, the proper drivers for that
device should be loaded. The device may work using the default drivers included
with the operating system, but you may not get the full functionality that the
device-specific driver provides. The drivers are specific not only to the device
but to the operating system, as well. You also need to select the proper driver
for either 32-bit or 64-bit systems.


=== Configuration settings ==== Duplex Duplex

Enabling duplex mode causes the printer to print on both sides of the paper.

Duplexing

Let’s start by looking at a multifunction printer. In the image below, we have a
network connected device that is capable of printing on both sides of the paper,
known as duplexing, through the use of an adapter on the printer. This can save
quite a bit of paper. Duplexing is accomplished by printing the odd pages first,
reorienting the paper, feeding it back into the printer, and then printing the
even pages.

Duplex setting in Windows Printing on both sides of a sheet of paper Saves paper
Printer must have a component called a “duplexer” in order to do this A printer
without a duplexer might allow you to choose “duplex” from the printer options.
It will • print all the odd numbered pages • ask you to flip the sheets over and
reinsert them into the printer • print the even numbered pages 
 
==== Collate Collate

Collate or collation settings determine the order in which pages are printed. If
set to collate, the printer will print the complete document before printing the
next copy.

Collating and Orientation

Another printer feature is collating. Collating is where the printed pages are
arranged in a pre-determined order.

There are two types of orientations used in printers. The first is portrait mode
where the output reads from top to bottom as a regular letter. The second mode
is landscape mode in which the page is printed with its long side facing the
top. This is good for materials that are wider than they are high.

Portrait Printing Layout

Collate When you print multiple copies of a document, the printer will print all
the copies of each page at a time.  For example, if you print five copies of a
ten- page document, the printer will print five copies of the first page, then
five copies of the second page, etc. until the end.  With collating, it will
print one copy of the document at a time. 
 

==== Orientation Orientation

There are two options for orientation, portrait or landscape. In portrait mode,
the top of the page is the shorter dimension. This is how pages are typically
printed. In landscape mode, the top of the page is the longer dimension.
Spreadsheets and slides are often printed in landscape mode.

Orientation Portrait or Landscape This is determined in Windows or in the
software that created the document 
 

==== Quality Quality

Print quality settings control resolution and color. Resolution is expressed
dots per inch. Higher resolutions provide better quality printouts. Color
settings control how vivid the color output is.

Print Quality

You can also adjust the quality of the printer output by choosing the paper type
and size/quality. For example, change paper type to Photo paper if you are
printing pictures.

Print quality settings

Quality Can print a document in high quality or low quality Lower quality is
faster, uses less toner/ink 


== Device sharing Device Sharing

Devices can be shared by multiple users, over wired or wireless connections.
Users can connect directly to a printer or through a print server or cloud
printing service.

Printer Sharing

Printer device sharing is very dependent on how it is set up.


=== Wired Wired

Wired connections to printers may be made via USB, serial, or Ethernet.

Wired printers are best for office use as the Ethernet connections to other PCs
are consistent. Start by connecting a workstation printer and sharing it. The
printer can be connected to the workstation using USB, a legacy serial port, or
through wireless. Once installed, the printer can be shared by the workstation
through a number of ways. For example, an ad-hoc share where a one-to-one
connection involving just two PCs and one printer can be used. A Bluetooth
connection is an example of this type.

Device Sharing Applies to other devices besides printers ==== USB USB—USB is the
most common way to connect a printer to a computer. When connected, that
computer can be configured to make that printer shareable.

Wired – USB Printer connects to one PC (main PC) via USB cable Can share with
other devices on network, if main PC is powered on 
 

==== Serial Serial—Serial is an older connection method using a serial cable
with a DB-9 or DB-25 connector. It is unlikely that you would see this type of
connection today.

Wired – Serial Printer connects to one PC via Serial cable Can share with other
devices on network, if main PC is powered on 
 

==== Ethernet Ethernet—Printers that are designed to work on a network will have
an RJ-45 Ethernet connector. They connect to the network with an Ethernet cable,
just as a computer would. They are easily shared, since the are connected
directly to the network.

Wired – Ethernet Printer connects to network Any device on network can connect
to the printer and print if it has permission 
 

==== Wireless Wireless

Wireless connections to printers may be made via Bluetooth, 802.11, or a direct
ad hoc connection.

Wireless printers open up a multitude of options. Wireless printers contain
their own integrated print servers and do not require connection to a
workstation. Devices can print directly to the printer through wireless and as a
result, these printers can be optimally placed in the workspace. Workstations
can connect directly to the printer using 802.11(a,b,g,n,ac) or Bluetooth. If
the printer is configured properly, it is capable of remote printing or cloud
printing, making it possible to instantly deliver a hard copy of a document
directly to the device from practically anywhere.

===== Bluetooth Bluetooth—Bluetooth connections can be used to print from
devices within 10 meters (about 30 feet) of the printer. Mobile devices can use
Bluetooth to send documents directly to a printer.

Wireless – Bluetooth Any device in range and with Bluetooth capability can
connect directly to the printer and print 
 


===== 802.11 (a,b,g,n,ac) 802.11 (a, b, g, n, ac)—Printers may use the 802.11
wireless protocol to make WiFi connections to networks. Any device on the
network can then use that printer. A device may also connect directly to a
printer using 802.11.

Wireless – 802.11 Printer connects to network wirelessly Any device on network
can connect to the printer and print if it has permission 
 

===== Infrastructure vs. ad hoc
** Infrastructure vs. ad hoc—When the device and the printer use the network
   **WiFi infrastructure to communicate, it is referred to as infrastructure
   mode. Another mode of 802.11 communications is ad hoc mode. In ad hoc mode, a
   device connects directly to the printer over 802.11.

Infrastructure vs ad hoc An infrastructure Wi-Fi connection is a connection
between the printer and the Wi-Fi network.  Other devices connect to the same
Wi-Fi network and can access the printer. 
 
An ad hoc Wi-Fi network connection is a Wi-Fi connection between the printer and
the computer.  During connection, the printer and devices.  The ad hoc
connection is temporary and only for the purpose of printing. 
 
==== Integrated print service (hardware) Integrated Print Server (Hardware)

A print server sits on the network and handles printing requests from users. It
can spool (temporarily store) requests for printers that are busy, allow
prioritization of print jobs, and delete jobs after they’ve been sent. Print
servers may be separate devices or integrated into the printer.

Integrated Printer Server A print server accepts print jobs and queues them.  An
integrated print server is one that is part of the printer. 
 
Why do we need a print server?  • A printer may receive print jobs faster than
it can print them • A printer may receive print jobs but be low on necessary
supplies (ink, toner, paper, staples, etc.)  The printer won’t be able to print
until supplies are restocked.  • For security reasons, a user may want to print
a document to a shared printer, but not actually have it print until he or she
is next to the printer.  The server keeps the document secure until the user is
physically present to receive it. 
 

==== Cloud printing/remote printing Cloud Printing/Remote Printing

Cloud printing is a service that allows you to print from anywhere you have
Internet access to a printer that has been configured for use with that service.
Not all printers are compatible with all cloud print services, so you must check
for compatibility.

Cloud Printing/Remote Printing Google Cloud Print is an example The Google Cloud
Print app is installed on a computer with a USB or network connection to the
printer.  Other users (including remote users) connect to the Google Cloud Print
app.  The app transfers the document to the computer that is connected to the
printer.  The computer automatically prints the document.  Google cloud print
allows you to print 


== Public/shared devices Public/Shared Devices

SOHO devices can be made available and shared with anyone on a network. This is
true for devices that are connected directly to the network or connected to a
computer. If a printer is connected to a computer, then the operating system
must be configured to make the printer available to users on the network.

Giving access to users over the network raises concerns over data privacy. Steps
must be taken to ensure that users cannot read other users’ print jobs.

Sharing and Security

Remember to think about security when planning this configuration! Just putting
a printer on the Internet exposes it to attacks. Securely configure the device
with user authentication because otherwise, anyone can access the data being
sent.

=== Sharing local/networked device via operating system settings Sharing
Local/Networked Device

Different operating systems have their own mechanisms for sharing printers.

Windows™ provides a means to configure printers with Control Panel, where it may
be set as shareable. Users can then access the printer over transmission control
protocol (TCP) and user datagram protocol (UDP) by identifying the IP address of
the computer and the TCP/UDP ports. The ports used for network printing are TCP
139, TCP 445, UDP 137, and UDP 138.

Apple™ computers share printers using the Bonjour™ protocol. Any Apple™ device
can discover printers connected via Bonjour™. Windows™ users would have to
install iTunes™ to access Bonjour™ printers. Apple™ mobile devices running iOS™
use AirPrint™ to print to shared printers over WiFi.


==== TCP/Bonjour/Airprint TCP/Bonjour/AirPrint

So how does one connect to a wireless printer? The material here will apply to
either Apple or Microsoft software.

The most common way to connect to a freestanding wireless printer is through its
IP address (TCP/IP). You can do this the hard way by manually installing the
printer or in the case of Apple or Apple compatible products, the Bonjour
service which will quickly find the device for you. An easy way is to use
AirPrint, a driverless program that can work from your smartphone and will
simply print it for you. Any combination of these will get you going. In all
cases, TCP will be the underlying carrier.

Bonjour is a service that allows Apple resources to find each other on the
network.  Resources include iTunes, and printers. 
 
AirPrint allows an Apple device to wirelessly connect to an AirPrint-enabled
printer or to a non-AirPrint-enabled printer that is connected 

=== Data privacy Data Privacy

To ensure data privacy of print jobs, you need to manage user authentication and
hard drive caching of print jobs, also known as spooling.


==== User authentication on the device User authentication—Users can be required
to authenticate to print servers. They typically authenticate at one of two
security levels: user or administrator. Users are limited to printing and
managing their own print jobs. This prevents other users from seeing or
interfering with other users’ print jobs. Administrators can manage all print
jobs.


==== Hard drive caching Hard drive caching—Hard drive caching of print jobs is
called spooling. It allows print jobs to be stored on a hard drive or other
storage device until the printer is ready to print it. The print job sits in a
file until it is printed, and then it should be automatically deleted. However,
automatic deletion may fail. In that case, the file can be manually deleted by
an administrator.

Hard drive caching

Expect not to have any semblance of privacy unless you are encrypting your
transmissions. Also remember that unless configured differently, the print job
is spooled or stored on a hard drive until the printer is ready. This method is
known as hard drive caching. Users who will be using the device remotely should
be properly authenticated.

In the case of a classroom or learning institution, a public share may be
acceptable. This would not be the case for a bank. Also, remember that the
printer will have its own interface that can be used to access the features and
functions of the device. It is important to be aware of the Operating System
settings for the device which can override the printer’s applet. Check both to
be sure.

OS Properties

Printer applet


Printer Security • Best practice for securing a printer o Make sure that you
install firmware updates when they become available o Protect the printer
configuration page from unauthorized access o Lock printer configuration
settings from unauthorized users (change the default password) o Disable remote
printing o Encrypt the printer hard disk.  The hard disk will contain copies of
printed documents.  If the printer is stolen, and the drive is encrypted, nobody
will be able to access the contents.  o Connect to the printer via https instead
of http.  Use a print driver that supports encryption.  o Replace old printers
that use outdated technology.  • Use private printing o Private printing sends
the job to the printer, but doesn’t automatically print it o The printer will
“release” (print) the job only when the user arrives at the printer and logs in.
Authentication can be  Username/password (can authenticate via LDAP or Active
Directory)  PIN  Access card/proximity card • For highly sensitive printers o
Connect the printer only via USB and don’t share it 
