= 3.2 Identify common connector types.

Connectors

You must be able to identify different connectors that are commonly used to
connect to computers, peripherals, and network devices.

Twisted Pair Connectors and Ethernet Wiring

Now we’ll look at the copper network cable types. Once the most exhaustive
connection method you would need to know for A+, the 802.3 series of cables are
now being replaced by Fiber and Wireless. Nevertheless, copper network cables
are still heavily used in the field with many networks running RJ-45 and
wireless networks covering the same areas. Here we will look at the two main
twisted pair implementations, RJ-11 and RJ-45. Here is how the connectors
compare.


== RJ-11
RJ-11—RJ-11 is the plain old telephone system connector. It is a single-row
6-pin rectangular connector to connect to a phone system or modem.

RJ-11 This connector supported the early 10BASE-T networks and Voice Grade
telephone connections with 6-pin capability. While still used in telephone
implementations, RJ-11 has been surpassed in networking by RJ-45which will be
described later. RJ-11 supports speeds of 10Mbps, which is adequate for voice,
but highly inefficient for networking which can attain speeds of 1000Mbps.

RJ-11 
Used for analog phone lines 
Contains 4 pins, but is 6 pins 
wide 
Also (RJ-12, which contains 6 
pins and is 6 pins wide) 
 
 
 
 
 
== RJ-45
RJ-45—Often referred to as an Ethernet connector, this single-row 8-pin
rectangular connector is used for Ethernet connections.

RJ-45 This connector succeeded RJ-11 for network use. RJ-45 uses four twisted
pairs of wire configured to reduce cross-talk and other cable related problems.
In its initial configuration, RJ-45 was capable of matching RJ-11 speeds,
10Mbps, which was the standard for the time. Keep in mind how the RJ-45
connectors are wired. There are two dominant wiring pinouts: T-568A and T-568B.

T – 568 A & B detail

Changes in network hardware made it possible for this connector to reach speeds
of 100Mbps. As the technology has advanced, even greater speeds can be attained
by making enhancements to the internal configuration of the connector and the
cable while leaving the original shape and size of the connector unchanged.
Coaxial

Another network cable option is Thinnet or the RG-58 variant.

RG-58 Coaxial

This 10BASE2 connector and cable were harder to manage than its 10BASET cousin.
It used BNC connectors and a somewhat less manageable shielded copper core
cable. RG-58 matched the 10Mbps speed and had a longer range, but it was
difficult to implement the required bus topology and required a T connection at
each host, along with termination at the cable ends, to prevent signal
reflection.

 
RJ-45 
Ethernet 
Contains 8 pins 
 
Female RJ-45 jack is available 
in many colors and types 
Can be cat5e, cat6, or cat6A 
 
 
 
 
 
 

== RS-232
RS-232—RS-232 is actually a specification for serial communications that uses
either a DB-9 or DB-25 connector. It has a trapezoid shape. The DB-9 is a 9-pin
connector arranged in two rows of four and five pins. The DB-25 is a 25-pin
connector arranged in two rows of 12 and 13 pins. RS-232 is most commonly used
to connect to network devices’ console or management ports.

RS-232 / DB-9

The RS-232 cable is used for serial communications. It has a 9-pin configuration
and supports PC to router/switch connections over a null modem cable. Similar
legacy serial connectors can support peripherals such as the mouse.

RS-232 connector

RS-232 
Serial 
Most common size has 9 pins 
 
 
 
 
 

== BNC
BNC—BNC connectors are used to terminate DS3 coaxial cables, used for wide area
network connections. An older type of Ethernet network known as 10Base2 or
Thinnet also used coaxial cable terminated with BNC connectors. It is a
cylindrical connector with a twist-lock end to make a secure connection.

BNC 
Terminates a coaxial cable 
The BNC connector twists on 
to lock to a female connector 
Used to terminate RG-59 and 


== RG-59
RG-59—Cable TV coaxial cables are terminated with RG-59 connectors, cylindrical
connectors with a threaded end to make a secure connection.

F-connector 
Used to terminate RG-59 and 
RG-6 cable 
 
 
 
 
 
== RG-6
RG-6—Cable Internet coaxial cables are terminated with RG-6 connectors,
cylindrical connectors with a threaded end to make a secure connection.


== USB
USB—The Type-A USB connector is a rectangular 4-pin connector that connects to a
computer. The Type-B USB connector is a 4-pin connector that connects to a
peripheral device. It is basically square, but two corners are cut at an angle.

USB Cable End Details

When looking at the cable ends presented above, the most significant features
would be what you’d expect: shape, color, and size. Changes began with USB 2.0
where the need for a standard connector for portable devices such as smartphones
was apparent. Before this modification, each manufacturer had to design their
own ”B” end of the cable because the standard connector was  twice the size of
the device! Eventually, the USB 2.0 mini connector and the USB 2.0 micro
connector (see table above) was designed to solve this issue.

Evolution of the USB Connector

During the development and enhancement of FireWire[, development speeds reached
800Mbps! We found ourselves in the position where market domination was
inevitable but it didn’t happen. What went wrong?

There were two developments that hindered FireWire adoption. The first, not too
surprisingly, was greed. Apple was preparing to impose a $1 per port royalty on
FireWire connections. They eventually opted not to impose the charge but it was
too late as it had left a bitter taste with the consumers. Second, there was a
generation of FireWire only iPods. These new devices would only accept Fire Wire
connections. Customers seeking only to upgrade their music player were forced to
upgrade their computer to FireWire as well! Hmmmmm. This is not one of the major
points but it certainly bears some scrutiny.

When FireWire 800 was developed, there was no consideration for backwards
compatibility. In contrast when USB upgraded from 1.1 to 2.0, compatible
connectors were used. For the end user, this greatly simplified their migration
to the new technology.

With the introduction of the USB-C connector, one of the main user complaints
about the USB mini and micro connectors was solved. The shape of mini and micro
USB connectors had a top and a bottom and as a result, these connectors could
only be inserted one way. USB-C connectors are reversible, having upper and
lower contacts, and can be inserted easily without a struggle. USB-C supports
the USB 3.0 and USB 3.1 standards. However, USB-C is not backwards compatible.

USB 
Standard connector 
Female connector can be part 
of a system board or a 
separate cable 
 
 
 
 
 
 

== Micro-USB
Micro-USB—The micro-USB connector is a 5-pin connector that connects to a
peripheral device. It is basically rectangular, but two corners are cut at an
angle.

Micro USB 
 
 
 
 
== Mini-USB
Mini-USB—The mini-USB connector is a 5-pin connector that connects to a
peripheral device. It is basically rectangular, but two corners are cut at an
angle on one side, and two tabs are on the other side.


Mini USB
== USB-C
USB-C—The USB-C connector is an oval 24-pin connector that connects to either a
computer or peripheral device. It is reversible, meaning that it may be inserted
with either side up. It has two rows of 12 pins. Each row carries the same set
of signals.


== DB-9
DB-9—The DB-9 is a trapezoid-shaped 9-pin connector arranged in two rows of four
and five pins. It is used for serial connections to network devices’ console or
management ports.

F- Connector

Your objectives call for knowledge of the F-Type connector. This connector is
not as much a network connector as it is a video connector. Your Home Media
Center PC will require this connector in order to connect your cable or antenna
system to it.

F Type

An RG-6 cable uses an F-type connector. It is similar to BNC, however the F
connector screws onto the component, creating a connection where a failure point
will most likely be the cable itself rather than at the connection point. The
connection is strong and extremely unlikely to pull out.


== Lightning
Lightning—The Lightning connector is a rectangular 8-pin connector that connects
to either a peripheral device. It is reversible, meaning that it may be inserted
with either side up. It has a single row of 8 pins that are exposed on both
sides of the connector.

USB-C connector

Apple’s proprietary Lightning cable shares the same reversible properties as the
USB-C connector. We can see the port on the device has upper and lower
connectors.

Lightning cable and connector



== SCSI
SCSI—There are different types of SCSI connectors. The most common are
rectangular or trapezoidal with 50 or 68 pins arranged in two rows.

SCSI

Next, we see a DB-25 external SCSI connector. This connector supports parallel
communication between peripherals and also for RS-232 connections. This cable
and connector can be distinguished by the opposite cable end. A printer will use
a Centronics connector on one end and a DB-25 on the other.

External SCSI DB-25 connector by Smial:
https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=1009571


== eSATA
eSATA—The external SATA (eSATA) connector is a 7-pin connector that connects to
an external SATA drive. It has basically a rectangular shape with tabs on the
ends.

• eSATA

Because of its flexibility, the SATA interface can connect externally to the
machine using an eSATA port. In the table, you can see the internal SATA Data
and power connectors. Many SATA devices ship with a MOLEX-to-SATA adapter cable
for power. eSATA connects external devices. You can distinguish the SATA from
  eSATA by noting the L shaped SATA connector. The eSATA connector has a
  straight rectangular interface and an external rib on each side of the plug.
  This feature prevents improper insertion.

SATA and eSATA connectors (Image Smial CC by-SA 2.0 de
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/de/deed.en)


== Molex
Molex—The most common Molex connector is a single-row 4-pin connector used to
provide power to disk drives. It has a basically rectangular shape with two
corners cut at an angle.

Molex-to-SATA Power

Below, you can see a typical Molex-to-SATA power connector. The white Molex
connector supplies power for two SATA devices.

Molex-to-SATA power connector
