= 4.6 – Explain the processes for addressing prohibited content/activity, and privacy, licensing, and policy concepts.
== Incident response
=== First response
      Identify
      Report through proper channels
      Data/device preservation
=== Use of documentation/documentation changes
=== Chain of custody
      Tracking of evidence/ documenting process
== Licensing/DRM/EULA
=== Open-source vs. commercial license
=== Personal license vs. enterprise licenses
== Regulated data
=== PII
=== PCI
=== GDPR
=== PHI
== Follow all policies and security best practices

Regulation of Technology Use
Licensing/DRM/EULA

For this exam, you should be very comfortable with the many types of licensing arrangements available today, including digital rights management (DRM) and end user licensing agreements (EULA) that stipulate how the software can be used.
Open Source vs. Commercial License

An open source license means that the software’s source code is freely available to the public. This means the software can be modified and recreated if desired by the end user. A commercial license is usually closed source, meaning the source code is not available to the general public.
Personal License vs. Enterprise Licenses

A personal license is granted only to one end user for recreational purposes. At times, costly commercial software will license its product for non-commercial use to an individual or student, and this is intended for personal use only. Enterprise licenses are intended for business use, typically by larger organizations, and are a form of paid commercial software licensed to the company for a certain number of users.
Incident Response

You should adhere to the following order of operations when responding to any incident occurring on your computer network.
First Response

The first step is the proper confirmation that an incident has happened, or is taking place. You should gather as much information as possible on the event and report it through the proper authorized channels at the organization. These items will be outlined in a sound security policy.

Identify— We have tasks to complete every day. While completing these, if something looks different, then you have just identified something. By using checklists and following these checklists as a daily task, you are more likely to identify an incident long before it possibly affects the system.

Report— Once confirmed, ensure others in your chain of command are notified that an incident has occured. Document the person and title you informed as well as the time they were informed. Having a standard report form will assist in this procedure.

Preserve— To obtain a full incident overview, preservation is paramount. Ensuring that the evidence remains intact and undisturbed will preserve the incident for investigation.
Documentation

The next step is to document as much as possible and continue documentation as changes are made to the incident. You can make use of pictures, scratch notes, or event logs to collect and assemble this information.
Chain of Custody

Lastly, you want to make sure the information you have is preserved, especially in the event that information changes. Maintaining the integrity of the information is the most important step from this point forward. Any unaccounted changes could call into question the reliability of the information, making any work done since the first step useless.

Tracking of evidence— Evidence of an incident can be vital to proving the who, what, when, and how of the incident. Ensuring this evidence is maintained while the investigation is being completed should be conducted with evidence trackers and chain of custody logs. These can be generic forms or be generated internally, but should be started as soon as the documentation begins.

Documenting progress— During the investigation phase of the incident and all during the process, everything must be documented to maintain the incident. Any slight infraction can lead to “tainted” evidence and the investigation being sidelined.
Regulated Data

Within the scope of information technology is data that must be held to a higher standard than that of other data. In cases of regulated data, the federal government has developed standards as to the handling of this data.

PII— Personally Identifiable Information: This is information that can be used as a means to identify employees within an organization, such as Social Security numbers and addresses. This information should remain very secure, and there should be clearly defined policies stating who can access it.

PCI— Payment Card Industry: Security standards that ensure all companies that accept, process, store, or transmit credit card information maintain the security of such information.

GDPR— General Data Protection Regulation: Regulations based on data protection and privacy within the European Union.

PHI— Protected Health Information: Information relating to health information of the person stored, transmitted or maintained in electronic or other forms. Subject to state and federal privacy and security rules, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).
Policies and Security Best Practices

Most of these policies, including end user policies, were created to best protect the organization’s network and should all be followed. Many items that a company may disallow or restrict can pose significant security risks to the computer infrastructure. This makes it very important that all policies are followed, and that all employees from entry level to CEO are educated on security best practices.




Incident Response

In some cases, violations may be innocent transgressions attributed to the employee’s misinterpretation of the rules. For others, violations may be flagrant with legal implications. In either case and regardless of how one became aware of the violation, it is important to adhere to company policy in order to ensure proper handling of the situation.

It may be tempting to err on the side of leniency for some matters. However, this is NOT your decision to make. In the worst case, failure to report incidents could make you an accomplice. Every company has slight terminology variations as to what is and is not acceptable use. The fundamental principles will be the same. For example, every company will have an Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) that is part of the employment agreement and is also freely available for employee review. Read it completely and follow it to the letter.

First response

For any case where you believe there has been a legal infraction or poor judgment, the incident should be reported as defined by corporate policy. There is no situation where you would confront the employee directly. Confronting the employee provides time for the employee to cover up the transgression and opens the door for unauthorized parties who are not involved in the process to overhear your discussion. Keep your discussion within the authorized channels. Your handling of matters involving data breaches will likely be scrutinized by the legal team, making it important that you follow company guidelines to the letter. Take clear notes regarding reporting and the actions you take.

Identify

An incident may be identified through personal observation or through the routine observation of network logs. Log files will uncover unauthorized personnel accessing restricted data. Immediately document this behavior and bring it to proper individual(s) for escalation.

Report through proper channels

Always report strictly to the appropriate parties as indicated by your organizational Security Policy. The process you follow and the manner in which you report will be closely scrutinized. Be clear, accurate, and complete in your reporting.

Data/device preservation

In cases where there is evidence of foul play or corporate espionage, the preservation of data is of paramount importance. A forensic team should be involved in order to securely handle, store, and validate any digital media. Network logs and MRU lists showing recently accessed documents will solidify your case. Obtain the services of a forensic expert before you handle anything. The slightest change could render the evidence inadmissible.

Use of documentation/documentation changes

Company policies are subject to change in order to keep pace with the evolving corporate environment. While these policies are easily accessible by employees, all employees should be notified when a change is made and given instructions on how to view the updated documentation. For a lengthy document, the exact change should be explicitly stated in order to prevent employees from overlooking it.

Chain of custody

Whenever evidence is necessary to create or support a case, all records and physical support need to be carefully preserved. This is accomplished using a form called a Chain of Custody. The Chain of Custody is designed to allow anyone who comes in contact with the evidence the ability to record the date/time they come into possession, the actions taken, the release date/time, and the party it was remanded to. Fill this form out completely because any mistakes or gaps will render the evidence inadmissible. Sign for everything you take in possession and obtain signatures from those you transfer possession to. Any gaps in this process can be interpreted as a point of evidence corruption.

Tracking of evidence/documenting process

The documentation surrounding the handling of evidence is crucial in any legal matter and will be subsequently reviewed for completeness and accuracy. You and all parties concerned in the handling of physical and digital evidence should be prepared to present accurate, irrefutable records proving time/date received and what actions were performed. The Chain of Custody and the Due Care taken for these materials while in your possession are both incredibly important. Forensics experts should be involved immediately as their skill set includes the storage and preservation of volatile digital data. They are capable of recovering the most volatile data such as system RAM as well as preserving the integrity of storage media by making workable original copies.

Licensing / DRM / EULA

A common infraction involving midsized to large corporations is caused by employees misunderstanding or disregarding software licensing. While organizations make every effort to avoid copyright infringement, there are cases where a careless employee may feel that a special graphics program or a piece of music will enhance their presentation. The legality of this practice may come into question, causing financial hardship for the company.  

It falls to the user to carefully read the End User License Agreement (EULA) before accepting it. The EULA contains clauses regarding the acceptable use of the product and the ramifications of misuse among other legally binding matters.

In practice, very few users actually read the agreement and simply accept it. Blind acceptance is a liability.

Lastly, Digital Rights Management (DRM) protects artists from having their works used in unauthorized manners. The DRM is digitally embedded in the media and is aggressively enforced.

What navigating Licensing, DRM & EULA can feel like

Open source vs. commercial license

Software can be generally classified in two groups: open source and closed source or commercial license.

For open source (freeware) software, the source code is freely available and can be modified by subsequent developers providing that any derivative works remain freely available and there are no fees for its use. This software is developed by and for a community that values the betterment of the product over financial reward. The Linux and Android operating systems are great examples of this philosophy.

Closed source software is commercial for-profit programming that charges for the use of its programs. Closed source code is closely guarded and not available. Obviously, use of this programming will be controlled by various licenses as you will see below.

Personal license vs. enterprise licenses

When using commercial software, the license is purchased based on the intended use. Personal use is defined as a single user installing the product on personal devices in their home. In the corporate environment, products are usually covered under an enterprise site license that grants use to all employees. If the software is particularly expensive or if use is confined to a small group or department, a per-seat license may be more cost effective. This license limits the installations to a predetermined number of users.

Regulated data

The types of data described below are regulated by the government and are considered regulated data. Often a healthcare provider will employ a compliance officer to ensure that all regulations policies and laws are adhered to. For your test preparation, note the following information.

PII

Personally Identifiable Information (PII) is the information about a person that would be considered confidential. This includes a person’s full name, complete address, credit card numbers, date of birth, social security number, and their health records. Entities that store this information are subject to strict legally binding guidelines regarding the confidential storage and dissemination of this information. PII is a high-value target for hackers who can use this data to create identities, accessing and depleting all assets, or even falsely creating new lines of credit. Lists containing this information are easily attainable on the black market.

Don’t release this information without careful consideration. Something as simple as a job application contains enough information for someone to deplete an individual’s assets and ruin their credit.

PCI

The Payment Card Industry (PCI) has defined standards to safeguard credit card information during transmission and storage (where applicable). Major credit card companies comply with these standards as do the vendors and retailers receiving the data. Fraud is prevalent and is prevented by many implemented standards. A vendor may contact the card owner when a suspicious transaction is attempted.

PHI

Protected health information (PHI) refers to data regarding an individual’s personal health record. This information is protected by the government through the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) which imposes strict penalties for security breaches. Hospitals, medical practices, medical personnel, and other entities must comply with HIPAA regulations. Consent will be asked if health information needs to be disclosed.

GDPR

The European Union (EU) has implemented the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which provides more control over the collection, sharing, and storage of personal information. It covers data that can uniquely identify an individual such as their genetic and biometric information, their name, and their address (physical and IP). The GDPR includes a provision that the individual be contacted if their information is breached.

Follow corporate end-user policies and security best practices

Every corporation has security policies regarding the handling of personal and corporate data. Be knowledgeable of these policies and follow them to the letter. Guidelines will also exist covering the handling of PII in certain situations. Treat these as absolute rules with no room for personal interpretation. Your job and someone’s financial well-being can both suffer irreparable damage.

