---
title: 1.1-Compare-and-contrast-common-operating-system-types-and-their-purposes
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-59
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 1.1-Compare-and-contrast-common-operating-system-types-and-their-purposes
= 1.1 – Compare and contrast common operating system types and their purposes.


== 32-bit vs. 64-bit

General Information

The emphasis on each of the content areas tested on the CompTIA A+ Core Series
1002 test is roughly equal, with Operating Systems being the subject assessed by
27% of the questions. A little over half of these questions begin with a
scenario, and those concept areas are indicated below by (scenario) notation.
Operating System Types

An operating system controls and coordinates all the elements of a computer. It
controls many functions that are necessary to use the computer, such as hardware
management, file system, and user interface.

The workstation operating systems in the scope of the exam are:

    Windows MacOS Linux

Cell phones and other mobile devices also have operating systems. The scope of
the exam is:

    Windows Android iOS Chrome OS

32-bit vs. 64-bit

Operating systems need to manage the hardware, and there are different operating
system versions for different hardware. One important difference is CPU
architecture that differs in bits. Historically, there were 8-bit and 16-bit
computers. Currently, 32-bit and 64-bit computers are widely used.

The bit length refers to the number of bits that is used for memory addresses.
For instance, 64-bit computers use 64 bits for memory address.



We will start this series with CompTIA A+ Core 2 Main Domain 1.1 (by definition)
which looks deceivingly simple. However, after reading deeper into the
objectives, you will notice that you’ll need to know which hardware platforms
support which Operating systems as well as which system architectures are
involved. Wait there’s more! A single statement (around 30 words) covers system
tool responsibilities, diagnostics, monitoring, prevention, system upgrade
paths, and eye candy. There’s quite a bit of stuff to keep track of!  32-bit vs.
64-bit and RAM limitations

Let’s get into it by starting with the basic architecture. Using Windows as an
example, there are 32-bit and 64-bit versions of all the operating systems
covered. 32-bit and 64-bit systems boil down to memory or RAM. With a 32-bit
operating system, there is a 4GB cap. You can put as much memory as you like
into a 32-bit system, but the system will only be able to see or use 4GB. A
64-bit system can utilize up to 16 Exabytes of memory and the proportional data
throughput makes a 64-bit system the fastest machine currently and into the
foreseeable future.

For both the OS and programs, remember that 64-bit versions will be considerably
faster.  Operating System 	32-Bit Architecture 	64-Bit Architecture
Windows 10 Home Windows 8.1 	4 GB 	128 GB Windows 10 Pro Windows 10
Enterprise Windows 8.1 Pro Windows 8.1 Enterprise 	4 GB 	512 GB Windows 7
Home Premium 	4 GB 	16 GB Windows 7 Professional Windows 7 Enterprise
Windows 7 Ultimate 	4 GB 	192 GB

Operating System Types – 32-bit vs 64-bit • What do we mean when we say 32-bit
or 64-bit?  • Each portion of RAM has an address.  A processor performing
calculations stores data in the RAM.  It must be able to locate the data by
specifying its address.  A 32-bit processor can support up to a maximum of 232
bits of RAM, which is 4GB.  A 64-bit processor can support up to 264 bits of
RAM, which is 18 EB • You can run a 32-bit operating system on most 64-bit
processors, but won’t be able to take full advantage of the processor’s features
• A 64-bit operating system can only run on a 64-bit processor • If you install
a 32-bit operating system on a 64-bit processor, you’ll only be able to use 4GB
of RAM, even if your computer has more RAM installed • Some programs require
64-bit operating systems.  A program might be written to run on a

=== RAM limitations RAM Limitations

Computer architectures with different numbers of bits can support different
amounts of memory. For instance, when using 32 bits for memory addresses, the
highest number would be:

1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 = 4,294,967,295

That means that the maximum size of memory a 32-bit computer can use is 4
gigabytes.

With 64 bits, the highest address in memory would be 18,446,744,073,709,551,616,
and the maximum size of memory this architecture can use is 16 exabytes. This
number is way beyond memory addressing needs for the foreseeable future. In
practice, the most memory supported by a Windows workstation operating system is
2 terabytes.

Windows Memory Support

=== Software compatibility Software Compatibility

Most operating systems will have a 32 and 64-bit version. The 32-bit version may
be referred to as x86, and the 64-bit version as x64. In most cases, the
hardware is backward compatible, meaning that you can install a 32-bit OS on
64-bit hardware, but not vice-versa.

Applications can also come in different versions. You will need a 64-bit OS on a
64-bit CPU to run a 64-bit application.

Software compatibility

In terms of compatibility, 32-bit software will run reliably on a 64-bit
platform. However, 64-bit software will not run on a 32-bit platform. Always opt
for 64-bit versions of software if your system supports it. Remember that 64-bit
  Windows versions require 64-bit device drivers.

Per the exam objectives, we will now move onto the systems that you will need to
know.


== Workstation operating systems Workstation Operating Systems

Workstation operating systems are designed to be used on a desktop or a laptop
computer by one person at a time. These operating systems provide a convenient
graphical user interface (GUI) and access to files and applications on the
computer.

Workstation operating systems

Workstation Operating System – Windows vs Apple vs Linux • Windows o
Manufactured by Microsoft o Closed source (the source code is not available) o
Most computers run Microsoft Windows, especially business computers o Latest
version is Windows 10 o Stores files in NTFS file system (hierarchical file
system) o Stores settings in the Windows registry o Most programs are written to
run on Windows o Frequent security updates are released by Microsoft (almost
weekly), and are mandatory • Apple o Manufactured by Apple o Closed source o
Based on Linux operating system o Typically bundled with Apple hardware (iMac,
MacBook Pro, etc.) o Current version is macOS 10.14 o Stores files in HFS file
system (hierarchical file system) o Stores settings in various plist files o
Fewer programs run on macOS o Security updates are not frequent • Linux o Open
source o Many versions of Linux are available from different manufacturers and
community groups o Both files and folders (directories) are considered files.
File metadata is stored in inodes.  Each inode corresponds to a different file.
o Each application stores its own settings in its own files Emulator o It’s
possible to install an emulator that allows you to run Windows programs on a Mac

=== Microsoft Windows Microsoft Windows

Microsoft Windows is the most widely used workstation operating system. It can
be installed on a wide variety of compatible hardware from many manufacturers
and it is commonly used in homes, schools, and offices.

Microsoft Windows

The exam covers all the major releases of Microsoft’s vendor-specific (closed
source) Windows OS’s: Windows 7, Windows 8, and Windows 10. Within each major
release, different features are available. We will cover these features in the
next post.

Windows 10 Start Screen

With Microsoft Windows, it is interesting to note that all features from the
versions of the OS are installed on the PC, but only those features of the
installed edition are available.



=== Apple Macintosh OS Apple Macintosh OS

Apple MacOS is the operating system designed to run on Apple workstations. It is
included with every Macintosh computer and is the second most widely used
workstation OS.

Apple Macintosh OS

Another popular vendor-specific (closed source) OS is Mac OS X. The MacOS can
only be installed on Macintosh computers from Apple Inc. The MacOS is based on
the venerable UNIX core with proprietary enhancements. We’ll cover the features
later in this series and note some of the differences between this and other
operating systems.



=== Linux Linux

Linux is a kernel, the core of the operating system. Interfaces and applications
can be added to the kernel. These pre-configured combinations are known as
distributions. This flexibility allows users to create various flavors of
systems for different cases. A distribution can have an extensive graphical user
interface (GUI), like Ubuntu, or be better adapted to high performance server
tasks, like Red Hat.

Linux

Linux, like the MacOS, is based on UNIX. In contrast to the MacOS, Linux is
completely free. Based on freely available open source code, the Linux OS allows
developers to create compatible applications and to contribute to the evolution
of the product. This also allows for patches and bug fixes to be implemented
quickly.


== Cell phone/tablet operating systems Cell Phone/Tablet Operating Systems

Phones and tablets are widely used, growing in hardware and performance, and
raise the need for complex, powerful, yet convenient operating systems.

Cell phone/tablet operating systems

r Operating System • Microsoft Windows o Current version is Windows 10 mobile o
Released by Microsoft o Not popular o Microsoft plans to discontinue it •
Android o Developed by Google o Open source o Based on Linux o Google is
responsible for creating updates to Android, and releasing them (updates are
released in an open source format) o Device manufacturers will customize the
Android operating system released by Google to suit their own devices o Android
is used by many phone manufacturers, including LG, Samsung, HTC, and Huawei o
Can download Apps from the Google Play Store or the Amazon store o Can download
Apps from other sources such as the internet, but these might present a security
risk o Typically bundled with Google Apps such as Chrome o Easy to “root” (gain
admin access) in order to run other unauthorized applications or to modify the
software o Data is backed up to a Google account • iOS o Developed by Apple o
Closed source o Based on Linux o Only runs on Apple devices o Can download Apps
from the iTunes store (only apps authorized by Apple are available in the
store).  Apps are not available anywhere else.  Difficult or impossible to
“root” or “jailbreak” (gain admin access) in order to run other unauthorized
applications, especially on newer versions of the iPhone • Chrome OS o Developed
by Google o Based on Linux o Available pre-installed on hardware manufactured by
Google partners o Runs on phones, tablets, and laptops o Designed as a thin
client operating system, with primary support for web apps o Primary user
interface is the Google Chrome web browser o Can run most Android apps
(downloadable through the Google play web store)

=== Microsoft Windows Microsoft Windows

Microsoft has discontinued its operating system for mobile phones. Tablets from
different hardware manufacturers support Windows, and they run the full version
of Windows 10.

Microsoft Windows

In the mobile arena, Windows 10 Mobile represents a very small portion of the
installed smartphone base. Based on the Windows 10 platform, Windows 10 Mobile
is significantly more popular on tablets.





=== Android Android

Android is an operating system developed by Google specifically for mobile
devices. It is based on the Linux kernel and is free and open source. Many
devices from different manufacturers around the world make phones and tablets
that run the Android operating system. It is the most used mobile OS.

Android

Based on the Linux kernel and Linux OS, the Android OS is popular on both
smartphones and tablets. The free open source nature of development allows for
continuous improvement. Google has assumed a management, distribution, and
quality control role with Android but does not own the OS. The Android OS holds
the lion’s share of the smartphone and tablet market.



=== iOS iOS

iOS is the operating system on Apple’s iPhones and iPads. It cannot be installed
on devices not manufactured by Apple.

iOS

iPhones and iPads run Apple’s iOS based on the MacOS. Together, iPhones and
iPads account for roughly one-fifth of the market. This is a proprietary
operating system.



=== Chrome OS Chrome OS

Chrome OS is not widely used on tablets, but mostly on netbooks. These are
lightweight laptops that are intended mostly for using services over the
Internet and for web browsing.

Chrome OS

The Chrome OS is another open source operating system. Developed by Google, it
is based on the Chromium OS and is designed for use with Google’s Chromebook.
The attraction of this OS is that it is mainly browser-based and requires fewer
local resources than a conventional desktop.


== Vendor-specific limitations Vendor-Specific Limitations

Once an operating system is installed, it can continue running. But there are
some limitations that you need to keep in mind and consider updating.

Vendor-specific limitations

Here is where you need to address your needs and budget. In the case of
vendor-specific operating systems, the vendor is free to establish licensing,
pricing, and availability of the code. In some cases, this means that the OS can
only be installed on specific hardware platforms.

erating System Vendor-Specific Limitations • End of Life o Technically, an
operating system will function forever (if the hardware doesn’t change).  That
doesn’t mean that the operating system will be relevant forever, because
technology changes.  o An operating system will typically announce the “end of
life” at least a year in advance o End of life means that manufacturer will stop
creating updates, especially security updates after a certain point o For
enterprise customers, the manufacturer will also stop providing technical
support o Newer apps won’t run on older versions of operating systems;
therefore, users will be forced to upgrade • Update Limitations o A new
operating system update may not operate on the current hardware set.  A user may
need to purchase more advanced hardware o A vendor can charge customers to
upgrade to a newer version of the operating system.  The cost of the upgrade may
be less than the cost of the full version.

=== End-of-life End-of-Life

When an operating system reaches the end-of-life phase by its developer, there
will be no more updates, patches, or technical support. There will probably be
no more applications developed or supported for this OS version.

End-of-life

End of Life (EOL) is a term used to describe software or hardware that has
reached the end of its useful life. This means that the product is no longer
supported by the vendor and any software or driver updates will no longer be
available. In terms of security, this creates a considerable vulnerability and
the user should upgrade to the latest version of the product if possible.



=== Update limitations Update Limitations

When the OS developer stops supporting the version, there will be no more
security patches released for that OS version. As new vulnerabilities get
discovered, this may leave the computer with an outdated operating system
exposed to security risks.

Update limitations

As described earlier, Software updates can be discontinued for EOL systems. The
update limitations can also be enforced on unlicensed software.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002



== Compatibility concerns between operating systems Compatibility

Applications that are available for one operating system may be not available
for others. The developer of the application may limit its efforts to only one
  operating system. Some applications may be available for MacOS and Windows
  (for example, Microsoft Office). Some applications may be available for MacOS,
  Windows, and Linux (for example, Google Chrome). In any case, these are
  different installation files of similar software.

Another compatibility concern may be caused when updating an operating system to
a newer version. New versions of operating systems may cause issues with
previously installed hardware and applications. Many large organizations choose
not to update their operating systems without thorough testing of the new
version with the existing hardware and business-critical software.

Compatibility concerns between operating systems Generally, the programs we run
on our devices or hardware platforms will only operate on that specific
operating system. A Linux program will not install or run on a Windows or iOS
system. Always install the correct version of any software for your system. Use
the FAT32 filesystem in order to transport the data produced by these programs
so that file system incompatibilities can be reduced. FAT32 is common to all
current OS’s.



