---
title: 1.4-Given-a-scenario,-use-appropriate-Microsoft-command-line-tools
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-58
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 1.4-Given-a-scenario,-use-appropriate-Microsoft-command-line-tools
= 1.4 – Given a scenario, use appropriate Microsoft command line tools.

Command Line Tools How to run a command in Windows?  Go to start menu and launch
the command prompt (type cmd)
 
The command prompt’s default location is the current user’s directory You can
type a command and press Enter Each command may have one or more options that
provide additional features == Navigation Microsoft Command Line Tools
(scenario)

You are expected to have a working knowledge of basic command line tools listed
below and be able to recommend their use when given a scenario.  Navigation

These commands are used to navigate the file system.



Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! In this section, we will be looking at
Microsoft command line tools. Knowledge of these commands and how they are used
will save you time trying to hunt down this info. These tools are always in the
“path” and are easily accessible from the command prompt. These commands
highlight the need for in-depth knowledge of the filesystem structure. Also
notable are commands that require elevation of privileges, better known as “Run
as Administrator.”

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

We are given the commands as a list so we will treat them in that manner here.
Remember that for any command, typing command /?  will display the help text for
that command including a list of the available parameters and their usage.
Navigation === dir dir—gives a listing of a directory.


DIR

This command displays file and directory information from a command prompt. This
command is available from the Recovery Console.

dir Lists the contents of a directory • Date modified • File size • File name •
Whether the item is a file or a directory (indicated by <DIR>) • Type dir /A to
list all files, including hidden files === cd cd—change directory used.

CD

This command displays the name of the current directory if used without
parameters. This command can also be used to move to another directory (as in
Change Directory) if a path is supplied. For example cd C:\Temp will move the
prompt into the Temp directory on the C: drive if it exists. CD\ will take you
to the root of your current drive. CD..  will take you to the parent directory
of the current directory. The /D parameter is used when moving to a different
disk or drive. The command is not case sensitive. The CHDIR command is used in
the same way as CD but is not listed in your objectives. This command is
available from the Recovery Console.

cd Changes Directory Type cd directory name Where directory name is the
directory you want to go to The directory you need to access must be inside the
directory you’re already in === ..  cd ..—move one level up in the directory
structure.  Other Tools

These are some other commands and command line utilities for networking, file,
system, and disk management.

..

Represents the parent directory of the one you are in. For example, if you were
at C:\Work\Complete and entered CD.. you would move up into the Work directory.

..  To go “up one level” in the directory, type cd ..  For example if you’re in
    C: \Main\Second, and you want to go to C: \Main, type cd ..

== ipconfig ipconfig—displays configuration of network adapters.

IPCONFIG

Ipconfig displays the host’s IP configuration.

ipconfig Displays the IP configuration of the computer ipconfig /a lists all the
network adapters, including • Network adapter name • MAC address (physical
address) • IP address, gateway, subnet mask, DHCP server, and DNS servers (if
available) Some other commands • ipconfig /renew: renews the IP address (if over
DHCP).  Attempts to obtain a new IP address from the DHCP server.  • ipconfig
/release: releases the IP address (if over DHCP).  Gives the IP address back to
the DHCP server.  • ipconfig /flushdns:: erases the DNS • ipconfig /displaydns:
<!--ID: 1639529002868-->

lists the DNS entries that are currently logge == ping ping—tests reachability
of a remote computer over the network.

PING

This command line tool enables you to determine if you have a connection to
another device on the network.

ping Allows you to ping another computer (by hostname or IP address) • The
command is ping hostname or IP address • For example, ping 8.8.8.8 or ping
google.com will attempt to ping 8.8.8.8 or ping google.com • The computer will
try four pings • If you enter a hostname, the computer will try to translate it
into an IP address via DNS first, and then ping it
 
Some options • ping -n ####: can specify the times to send the ping == tracert
tracert—displays what network devices a packet goes through to reach a remote
computer.

TRACERT

Tracert is used at the command line to display the path your data takes to a
particular host on the network or internet. Traceroute is the Linux version of
this command.

tracert Traces the route from your computer to another computer (by hostname or
IP address) The command is tracert hotname of IP address

== netstat netstat—displays network statistics on data transfers, ports, and
applications.

NETSTAT is used at the command line for displaying the network statistics of
your TCP traffic.  NETSTAT

When used without parameters, NETSTAT displays the TCP connections and state for
both IPv4 and IPv6 connections. Now deprecated in Linux, NETSTAT is still used
on Windows platforms.

Netstat Command Output

netstat Lists all the active connections between your computer and other
computers The command is netstat

== nslookup nslookup—resolves name to IP address, for DNS troubleshooting.

NSLOOKUP

NSLOOKUP is a specialized command line Query tool. It is used to obtain any DNS
information using command modifiers and switches. NSLOOKUP can return a great
deal of DNS data.

nslookup Tells us the name server corresponding to a domain name The command is
nslookup domain name For example, if we want to look up where google.com is
hosted, we type nslookup google.com

== shutdown shutdown—shut down or restart the computer. Allows options like
delayed restart.

SHUTDOWN

Shutdown allows you to restart or shutdown a remote or local computer. In the
default behavior, SHUTDOWN logs off the current user and is equivalent to the –l
parameter. The –m parameter allows you to specify the computer you want to shut
down and –s shuts down the local computer.

shutdown Shuts down the computer The command is shutdown
 
 
== dism dism—Deployment Image Servicing and Management tool to mount and service
Windows image files.

DISM

The Deployment Image Servicing and Management (DISM) tool is used to mount and
service Windows images before deployment.

dism Deployment Image Servicing and Management • Allows you to repair the
Windows installation, if it is corrupted • DISM will download the correct files
from a good source o You must have a new copy of the Windows ISO to give to the
DISM o The DISM uses the Windows ISO to repair the existing Windows installation
• DISM requires admin privileges • DISM /Online /Cleanup-Image /RestoreHealth o
Checks for errors and repairs them • DISM /Online /Cleanup-Image /CheckHealth o
Checks for errors, but doesn’t repair them

== sfc sfc—System File Checker tool checks the status and versions of system
files.

SFC

SFC is the System File Checker. It is executed after a reboot and scans all
protected system files, verifying their versions and integrity.

sfc System File Checker • Requires admin privileges • sfc /scannow  o Checks for
corrupted system files, and repairs them • sfc /verifyonly o Checks for
corrupted system files, but does not repair them

== chkdsk chkdsk—will verify the file system of a volume and fix logical file
system corruption.

CHKDSK

There are two operational modes of chkdsk, one is available in the Recovery
Console and the other can be scheduled from the drive’s properties window or the
command line. This command checks the hard drive for errors and can attempt to
recover data from bad sectors. The drive has to be locked during this process,
requiring a reboot.

chkdsk • Checks the hard disk for errors • Requires admin privileges • chkdsk
will only check for errors
 
• chkdsk /f will check for errors and repair them • If the drive is in use, then
Check Disk won’t repair the errors.  It will prompt you to run the == diskpart
diskpart—tool for managing disks, partitions, and volumes.

DISKPART

This is the command line replacement for the venerable fdisk command. Using
diskpart, you can add or delete partitions on system disks. This command is
available from the Recovery Console.

== taskkill taskkill—used to kill system processes given the process ID number
PID.

TASKKILL

The taskkill command replaces the kill command and is capable of terminating
processes from the command line using either the process name or PID.

taskkill • Ends a task • taskkill /IM task name o You can end a task with the
task name o For example, if you want to end notepad.exe, type taskkill /IM
notepad.exe  skkill /PID process ID number o You can end a task with the task
process ID o For example, if you want to end notepad.exe, and the process ID
number is 43, type == gpupdate gpupdate—manually refresh the domain group
policies applied to the computer or the user.

GPUPDATE

Refreshes the Local and Active Directory Group policy and security settings.

gpupdate Performs a Group Policy Update • Applies only to computers connected to
a domain • Downloads the group policy from the active directory server and
applies it to the computer == gpresult gpresult—displays the current group
policies and their status.

GPRESULT

Displays the Resultant Set of Policy (RSoP) for a remote computer and user.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

gpresult Determines how a Group Policy applies to a computer or a user •
gpresult: shows how the group policy applies • gpresult /r /scope:user: shows
how the group policy applies to a specific user • gpresult /r /scope:computer:
shows how the group policy applies to a specific computer (and

== format format—create a file system on a storage device.

FORMAT

The Format command is used to create a new root directory and file system on a
disk. When using Standard formatting (format C: /p), all data is overwritten
with zeroes. Using the quick option (format C: /q) deletes the master file table
and the root directory from a previously formatted disk. The quick option does
not zero out the sectors, meaning that the data is still present and recoverable
with specialized software. This command is available from the Recovery Console.

format Formats a drive • The command is format drive letter /fs:file-system •
Where drive letter is the drive letter of the drive you want to format •
File-system is the type of file system you want to implement (NTFS, FAT32, etc.)

== copy copy—make a copy of one or more files.

COPY

There are several ways to move data. Each way is best described using the help
screen for the command. For the copy command, you need to specify one or more
source files, the destination path, and filename(s). Use caution when copying
multiple files. If the destination is not properly defined, copy will combine
all source files into a single file. Copy will not copy files that are zero
bytes long. Use Xcopy (discussed next) for copying zero byte files. This command
is available from the Recovery Console.

copy Allows you to copy a file • The command is copy source file destination
directory • Source file is the file we want to copy • Destination directory is
the location we want to copy it to • It is assumed that the source file is
located in the current directory • For example, if we want to copy C:
\folder\file1.txt to C: \folder2\, and we are in the C: \folder == xcopy
xcopy—copy command with numerous options.

XCOPY

XCOPY copies files and directories including directory structure. Xcopy can copy
zero byte files. There are multiple parameters, practically /a to /z.
Fortunately, you don’t have to worry about them. Just concentrate on the source
and destination.

xcopy Allows you to copy a file or directory • The command is copy source file
or directory destination directory • Source file is the file we want to copy •
Destination directory is the location we want to copy it to • It is assumed that
the source file is in the current directory • For example, if we want to copy C:
\folder\file1.txt to C: \folder2\, and we are in the C: \folder == robocopy
robocopy—replaces xcopy, has numerous options.

ROBOCOPY

ROBOCOPY (as in Robust File Copy, with an extra “o’ to be cool…) is a powerful
file copy utility that was introduced as a standard feature in Windows Vista. It
is capable of copying, moving, or deleting files and directories. It is also
capable of creating mirror images of entire directory trees as well as allowing
the administrator to copy data that he or she does not have permission to view.
One drawback that prevents use on live machines is the fact that Robocopy cannot
copy an open file. As our systems become more complex, they can open and close
files that support processes, so you can’t be 100% sure of a complete copy.
Shadow copies are best suited to get a complete copy.

robocopy Robocopy is the Robust File Copy application • Allow for faster copying
of files • Command is Robocopy Source Destination • Source is the source
directory • Destination is the destination directory • For example, if we want
to copy files from Directory_A to Directory_B, we type C:\Directory_A
C:\Directory_B • Robocopy can also mirror a directory (it will delete files in
the destination directory that were == net use net use—connect or map a network
share.

NET use/user

This best resembles a Swiss army knife of command line networking utilities.
When used at the command line, there are a variety of switches available,
enabling the user to display network connections and even map networked
resources as drives on the local machine. The net use command can connect,
remove, and configure network connections. Without arguments, net use displays
the current connections in use. Net user can be used to add, remove, and make
changes to user accounts.

net use Connects to shared resources (maps a shared resource as a drive) •
Command is net use drive letter resource name • Drive letter is the letter we
want to map the resource to • Resource is the resource location • For example,
if we wanted to map \\server\my media to the E drive, we would type net use e:
  "\\server\my media"  • We can also delete a resource by typing net use
  resource name /delete • For example, if we want to delete the p drive, we type
  resource p: /delete • If we type net use, we can see all of the network
  resources currently connected

== net user net user—manage users.

net user Add, remove, or change users on the computer • Requires admin
privileges • Command is net user o Shows a list of all the user accounts • net
user username password o Changes the password of an account, where username is
the user name, and password is the password • net user username password /add o
Adds a new account, where username is the user name, and password is the ==
[command name] /?  [command name]/?—adding the /? parameter at the end of a CLI
command will display the list of command options and parameters, with their
short descriptions.

[command name] /?

Use command /? in order to see the help documentation for a particular file.

[command name] /?  Provides help on the command, including all possible options
 
Some commands will also display the help when you type an option incorrectly.  

== Commands available with standard privileges vs. administrative privileges
Command Availability

Just like system utilities in the GUI, the CLI commands need to be run with the
right privileges. Usually, displaying the information can be done with standard
privileges, but changes to the system require that you run the CLI as
administrator first.

Commands available with standard privileges vs. administrative privileges

If you are operating as a standard user, you may have problems executing some
commands that Microsoft deems too risky for the average user. To bypass this
issue, you can right-click on any Command Prompt shortcut and choose Run as
administrator. You can tell you are running as administrator when your Prompts
title bar shows Administrator: Command Prompt and you are working in the
C:\Windows\System32\> directory.


