---
title: 2.1-Summarize-the-importance-of-physical-security-measures
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-57
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 2.1-Summarize-the-importance-of-physical-security-measures
= 2.1 – Summarize the importance of physical security measures.
== Mantrap
== Badge reader
== Smart card
== Security guard
== Door lock
== Biometric locks
== Hardware tokens
== Cable locks
== Server locks
== USB locks
== Privacy screen
== Key fobs
== Entry control roster

Physical Security

When thinking about cybersecurity, it’s sometimes easy to forget what an important role physical security plays in keeping digital data safe. Physical security is important because no matter how many security measures you put in place on a device itself, physical security is the only thing that will stop a criminal from walking away with the entire device.

Mantrap— A mantrap is exactly what it sounds like. It’s a trap used to prevent infiltration methods such as tailgating and piggybacking. A mantrap is a small area with a set of two locked doors and it separates the outside world from a secured area. When entering, an individual will enter through the first door, but that door must then be closed behind them before the second door may be opened.

Badge reader— Badge readers can be implemented to help prevent unauthorized access. In this type of environment, employees are given badges such as proximity cards or smart cards. When the employee scans the badge, he or she is allowed entry to the area.

Smart card— Smart cards are cards that are typically the size of your driver’s license or credit card. The embedded memory and chipset in these cards can store identification and authentication information. A smart card can also be programmed to use as a cash card that is seen in many organizations where employees may use their employee badge to purchase lunch in an onsite cafeteria.

Security guard— Security guards are one of the few security controls that are considered not only preventative controls, but also deterrent controls and detective controls. This is because organizations with onsite security staff are less likely to be targeted for attacks than those with no security guards.

Door lock— Door locks should always be utilized whenever possible. Aside from locks preventing unauthorized entrance to the building, locks should also be utilized to protect rooms containing sensitive equipment (such as the server room or network closet).

Biometric locks— Biometric locks can add an additional layer of protection to an organization’s physical security. Smart cards and proximity badges can be lost and possibly wind up in the wrong hands. Biometric locks use an individual’s features, such as their retina or fingerprints, to authenticate them.

Hardware tokens— A hardware token is a physical device that stores authentication information. One example of a hardware token is an RSA key fob. These hardware tokens randomly generate numbers that can be paired with usernames and passwords for added security.

Cable locks— Cable locks can be used to help prevent a thief from walking off with laptops. A cable lock is used by looping the cable around a heavy (preferably immovable) object and then securing the lock to a small security hole on the side of the laptop.

Server locks— Due to their important role within organizations, servers should never be left vulnerable to a physical attack. Not only should the server room be locked when not in use, but the rack in which the servers are located should also be locked.

USB locks— Many attacks can be delivered via an unsecured USB port on a server, laptop, or desktop. USB locks are small locks that plug directly into open USB ports and prevent unauthorized access.

Privacy screen— Privacy screens are screen covers that go on your phone, tablet, monitor, or laptop screen. These screens make it very hard to see what is happening on the screen unless you are sitting directly in front of it. This prevents shoulder-surfing, which is the act of spying on another person’s screen to collect information.

Key fobs— Key fobs are small security devices that store authentication information.

Entry control roster— An entry control roster is a document kept by a security guard that has a record of all the individuals who have entered and left the building. This is often used in conjunction with mantraps.


Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! This section will cover the content addressed in A+ 220-1002 objective 2.1 “Summarize the importance of physical security measures.” We will examine attack prevention for both the digital and physical environments. In addition to the standard protection method, we will also look at securing transmissions, ports, devices, and privilege configurations that enhance security. Off we go, enjoy!

Go back to A+ 220-1002 Domain 2.0 table of content

Physical security

The first area we will look at is physical security. Often marginalized or considered common knowledge, physical security is one of the primary defenses in the workplace. Enforcing locked entry points to secure areas is fundamental to overall security.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002
Mantrap

A mantrap, in simplest terms, is an area of controlled access between two secure areas. For example, consider a small room, with two doors, that is between two controlled access areas. The first door possesses a simple level of security allowing easy entrance into the space. The second door however has a higher level of security or different authentication method compared to the first door. Furthermore to prevent or at least minimize tailgating, the first door needs to be secured (closed) before the access mechanism(s) on the second door can be used.  The second more secure door may require multifactor authentication. Optimally, each mantrap would be monitored by a security guard.
Badge reader

Access is provided through security badges that contain coded data that identifies users to the security system. These badges include a current picture in order to satisfy personal security challenges. User data can be stored on a magnetic strip or NFC contactless storage. The card should also have the company logo and be tamperproof.
Smart cards

Smart cards are another way to deliver security tokens to the system. Smart cards may or may not be combined with badge technology. One thing that separates many Smart Cards from others is its ability to both send and receive data. This enables mutual authentication allowing each component to trust each other.

Smartcard
Door Locks

Locking doors seem like a simple task, but let’s look deeper and see what level of security can be achieved. First is the lock and key. This method to secure a single server by itself is unacceptable. Keys can be copied if left unattended. Locks can be picked granting unauthorized access. It is best to combine this method with others in order to create a secure area.

Door lock
Biometric locks

Using a person’s unique personal attributes such as their Iris, Fingerprint, or Voice to authenticate is known as biometrics. Biometric security is quite tough to fool. When setting up biometric locks, a sample of the attribute to be tested is provided. This is then stored in a database for comparison to any future access attempts. Often, a fingerprint scanner and a keyboard are combined in order to provide multifactor authentication.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002
Hardware Tokens

Tokens are a security component necessary for devices to communicate and provide the holder of the token the appropriate access level. Tokens are passed across connections to a card reader, a magnetic swipe, or via wireless communication.
Cable locks

Cable locks are used to secure valuable items, such as laptops, that can easily be removed from the workplace. Combination or key locks are attached to a cable which is solidly secured to the laptop and the desk.

Laptop Kensington lock
Server Locks

A server lock is used to prevent unauthorized users from opening the server case.
USB locks

USB locks prevent access to a device through the USB port. USB locks are small plastic plugs which are placed in the port(s). A USB drive can be used to access data or install malware. Consider any physical port a potential vulnerability.
Key fob

Key fobs are frequently used in contactless authentication. The key fob contains a security token that changes at predetermined intervals to synchronize with the master security system. This guarantees that the user has possession of the key fob. Possession of the key fob can be verified by entering the number displayed into the system.

Hardware token

Privacy screen

Privacy filters are employed by users who work in close proximity to others and require security from shoulder surfing. The screen filter narrows the monitor’s viewable angle to direct the output only to the desired user.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Entry control roster

An entry control roster is a list of people with valid credentials that is used by security personnel to log these parties. This covers 220-1002 objective 2.1! Keep pushing! Good luck on the test.
