---
title: 2.2-Compare-and-contrast-common-networking-hardware-devices
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-57
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 2.2-Compare-and-contrast-common-networking-hardware-devices
= 2.2 Compare and contrast common networking hardware devices.

Hardware Devices
For this exam, you should understand the basic purpose of network hardware
devices and the similarities and differences between them.

Network Equipment
•
Remember that a network device could have multiple functions
•
A typical home router can be a modem, router, switch, firewall, and access
point, all in one
•
For the purposes of the A+, consider only Small Office/Home Office network
equipment
== Routers
Routers

These are Layer 3 (network layer) devices that determine the best route for
traffic between networks.

Router /Access Point

Here they all are rolled into one device! Most reputable ISPs provide a device
like the one shown. For this image, we took the most fully featured non-ISP
related modem available. My guess is that most of you have seen a variation of
this in your travels. This device is a Cable Modem, Router, Firewall and
Wireless Access Point as well as a Switch/Bridge.

Wireless router

Think of the Router as your network traffic cop. Ultimately, the router and the
firewall which has the final say, decides which traffic does and does not get on
to your network. The router is useful for finding the quickest path for your
data to take while finding its way through the maze of routers and servers from
point to point. Shown here is a combination Router/ Wireless Access Point. It is
responsible for routing and also access to the Wireless Network among other
functions.

Router
•
Forwards data traffic between two networks (between a Local Area Network and a
Wide Area
Network)
•
The router contains a routing table or routing policy
•
When the router receives data, it reads the destination IP address of the data
•
It looks up the IP address in the routing table to determine the correct
destination
•
It sends the data to the correct destination
== Switches
Switches

Switches are Layer 2 (data link layer) devices that interconnect hosts on a
local area network using the MAC address of each host to make decisions about
forwarding traffic.

Switch/ Managed/ Unmanaged

A switch determines whether or not a destination Hardware (MAC) or network (IP)
address is attached to the switch itself. A switch uses MAC or IP addressing
knowledge about the devices connected to it and the device oriented environment
it exists in. Switches utilize packet switching and the information contained in
each packet to determine if the destination for the packet is connected locally
or needs to be forwarded upstream. Unlike a hub, an unmanaged switch uses the
information gained to direct traffic to the correct port. Switches operate as
MAC Bridges.

The goal of a switch is to enable efficient traffic management. A managed switch
has features not found in an unmanaged switch such as VLAN support and traffic
prioritization. Managed switches can use the SNMP protocol to enable remote
management.

Switch
•
Connects multiple devices over a local network
•
A switch reduces traffic collisions (compared to a HUB) because multiple devices
can
communicate at the same time.
•
Can connect multiple switches together to increase the number of available ports
•
A switch maintains a table of connected devices
o Each time a switch receives data on a port, it identifies the source MAC
address (the
sender’s MAC address)
o It records the source MAC address and port in a table
o When the switch receives data that it must forward, it looks up the
destination MAC
address in the table, and forwards the data to the appropriate port
o If the destination MAC address is not found in the table, then the switch
broadcasts
the data across all the ports
•
There are two types of switches
o A managed switch allows you to change settings on a per-port basis.  Settings
that
can be modified include VLANs, PoE status, port name, and security rules
o An unmanaged switch does not allow you make any changes.
•
A switch can have ethernet or fiber connections  
•
Some switches provide PoE (power over ethernet) and some don’t
=== Managed
Managed

Managed switches are configurable and have features that allow a network
administrator to optimize and customize the switch. They typically have better
monitoring options than unmanaged switches.

=== Unmanaged
Unmanaged

Unmanaged switches are not configurable, sometimes referred to as plug-and-play.
Since they cannot be configured, they are designed to allow hosts to connect
automatically when plugged into the switch, but that can come at the expense of
performance.

== Access points
Access Points

An access point is technically any device to which a host can connect in order
to access a network. So, while an access point may be a switch, the term usually
refers to a wireless access point that allows WiFi devices to connect to the
network.

Access Points
•
Allows a Wi-Fi device to connect to an Ethernet network
•
The Access Point broadcasts an SSID
•
Each Access Point connects to a switch over ethernet
•
Access Points are typically powered via PoE, but could also be powered by DC
adapters
•
Each Access Point can be configured independently, or multiple access points can
receive
their configuration from a controller
o Access points can work together to adjust their broadcast channel and power,
in
order to avoid overlap
•
An Access Point can have different antenna shapes so that it can adequately
cover different
== Cloud-based network controller
Cloud-Based Network Controller

This is a network appliance that acts as a management console for multiple
network access points. It also allows connection of access points to the network
without configuring each one individually.

Cloud-based network controller

Cloud resources and even entire virtual networks can be accessible using
Software Defined Networking (SDN). Network management can be delegated to cloud
resources to provide centralized management. This technique can be used to
create virtual WANs.

Cloud Based Network Controller
•
A Cloud Based Network Controller allows an administrator to configure and
administer a
network from a web-based application
•
Known as “software defined networking” or “zero touch provisioning”
•
How it works
o Cloud-based network devices (Routers, Switches, Firewalls, and Access Points)
are
connected and installed like in a traditional network
o Network administrator uses controller to create broad, general rules for how
the
network will function, including

VPNs and Wide Area Networks

Wi-Fi SSIDs and authentication

Firewall Settings
o Devices automatically connect to the controller over the internet
o Controller pushes a configuration onto each device automatically
o Controller pushes regular firmware updates onto the devices
o Administrator can monitor network activity from cloud
o Cloud devices can work together
•
Key advantages
o Easier to configure and maintain network
o Specific network skills and knowledge not required
o Cloud devices can share intrusion data for more advanced protection
o Devices automatically work together to implement network policy
•
Key disadvantage
o Requires payment of a monthly/yearly license fee to continue using network
equipment
o Requires devices to connect to the internet to receive their configuration

= Firewall
Firewall

This security appliance filters traffic, permitting or blocking traffic through
it based on a configured set of rules and inspection of network traffic.

Firewall

Firewalls can be a hardware device, software, or both. Naturally, you can
address more threats with the combination approach by using your hardware
firewall as the first line of defense. Next, your software firewall will provide
additional protection and possibly even malware scans.

Firewall

The hardware firewall device’s placement is important. It should be between the
external network, in most cases the internet, and your private network or LAN.

Firewall
•
Monitors and controls network traffic
•
A firewall contains a set of rules that determine which traffic is permitted and
which traffic is
not permitted
•
Rules can permit/block traffic based on
o Source IP Address/Port
o Destination IP Address/Port
o Time of Day
o Application Type
o User
o Combination of the above rules
•
Most firewalls come with a set of default rules
•
Additional specific rules can be programmed
•
Some firewalls have heuristics (advanced threat detection) based on artificial
intelligence
•
A Whitelist is a list of parameters that are automatically permitted.  Traffic
that doesn’t meet
the parameters on the whitelist is automatically blocked.
•
A Blacklist is a list of parameters that are automatically blocked.  Traffic
that doesn’t meet the
parameters on the blacklist is automatically permitted.
•
Cloud connected firewalls can download new rules from the internet
automatically, based on
== Network Interface Card
Network Interface Card

This is an adapter card used to connect a host to the network.

Network interface card

Devices connect to hubs and switches either wirelessly or through RJ-45 UTP
cabling. The wired connection requires a Network interface card (NIC) as shown
below.

PCI Express 1X Ethernet card.

Network Interface Card (NIC)
•
Allows a device to connect to the ethernet network
•
There are two types of NICs: Copper & Fiber
•
Copper NIC
o A Network Interface will operate at a particular speed, and at a particular
duplex
setting
o Speed

A NIC will operate at one or more of the following speeds: 10Mbits/s
100Mbits/s, 1000Mbits/s, 10Gbit/s

Older NICs operate at only 10Mbits/s or 100Mbits/s (known as 10/100)

Newer NICs operate at 10/100/1000

Only high-end NICs for servers can operate at 10Gbit/s
o Duplex

A NIC can operate as “half-duplex:” or “full-duplex”

Half-duplex uses two pairs of wire in an ethernet cable

Full-duplex uses four pars of wire in the ethernet cable
o When a connection is established between a NIC and a Switch/Router, the two
devices will negotiate a speed and duplex setting
o NIC Form Factor

Most motherboards contain a soldered NIC chip (most common for laptops
and desktops).  A consumer-grade NIC will have one port.

NICs are also available as separate PCI cards.  A NIC intended for use in a
USB to Ethernet adapter.  Can create an ethernet port for a laptop or other
device that doesn’t have a NIC.
 
•
Fiber NIC
o Like Copper NIC, except that it accepts a fiber optic cable
o Speed

Operates at 100Mbits/s, 1000Mbits/s, 10Gb/s

Some can also operate at 40Gb/s or 100Gb/s
o Most commonly installed on servers and storage appliances
The Fiber NIC will be a separate PCI card
== Repeater
Other Devices

Repeater— a device used to extend a signal being sent to provide additional
coverage

Repeaters/extenders

Digital audio information is represented on a sine wave display as a series of
squared off steps, resembling a staircase. If displayed in the analog format, it
would represent the same information as a smooth vertical line, a peak followed
by decay back to zero. Here is the simplest display of this process

Since the PC is transmitting information digitally, the signal can be refreshed
and restored to its original state using a repeater or extender without
distortion. Using this method with an analog signal would boost the unwanted
noise level along with the desired signal.

Repeater
•
Extends the range of a Wi-Fi network
•
It’s not always possible to install an ethernet cable to a location where an
Access Point is
required (ethernet cables have a maximum operating length of 300 ft)
•
A repeater can be installed instead
•
The repeater “repeats” signals from an Access Point
•
Requires a power source
•
Mesh Network
o Can connect multiple access points in a mesh network where some APs don’t have
a
connection to the switch; they repeat data to APs that do
•
Disadvantages
o Adding too many APs can cause latency because data must travel through
multiple
APs before reaching the switch (it takes longer for data to reach the switch)
o AP that is physically connected to the switch is responsible for handling all
the traffic.  

== Hub
Hub— an older technology Layer 1 (physical layer) device that simply connects
hosts together. Hubs have no intelligence and do not recognize MAC addresses, so
they just send traffic coming in on one port out on every other port

HUB

Hub

The smallest network you can create is a one-to-one (Peer to Peer) relationship
between two computers or devices. A hub is designed to distribute multiple
signals to multiple hosts. Communications are managed by CDMA (Carrier Sense
–Multiple Access), where the host will check the cable to see if it is clear
before transmission is initiated. When a signal is distributed by a hub, it is
sent to all connected devices, causing a burst of communications if left
unchecked (CDMA).

Hub
•
Also known as an ethernet hub, active hub, network hub, repeater hub, or
multiport repeater
•
Hubs are mostly obsolete and should be replaced by switches
•
When a hub receives traffic (a data packet) it will broadcast the packet on all
its ports
o All devices connected to the hub receive the packet, even if it’s not
addressed to them
•
Disadvantages
o Hubs have no management and don’t keep track of which devices are connected to

which ports
o A hub only allows one device to communicate at a time
 

== Cable/DSL modem
Cable/DSL Modem— a device used to connect to an Internet Service Provider (ISP)

Modem

When one thinks of a modem, one thinks of the traditional digital to analog
phone modem, where the signal is converted from digital to analog on the
opposite end. The device can be internal.

Phone Modem RJ-11

Over the past few years, the term modem became synonymous with Cable Modems.
Cable Modems, or Fiber modems, are at the most commonly used modems in use
today. Most ISP provided modems today have port forwarding/ triggering
functionality as well. This all-in-one feature bundling is part of the appeal of
these devices. You no longer need a separate WAP, DHCP sever, and Modem.
Depending on the modem itself, you may find a fully configurable Router and
Firewall. Modems are trending towards having all services coming in on a single
connection. (Show Router Access Point.jpg) Many readers have or have had this
device in their homes. Cisco and Linksys are the most famous modem
manufacturers.

Cable/DSL Modem
•
Converts Cable or DSL connection to ethernet (Cable or DSL connection is an
analog signal
and must be converted into a digital signal)
•
A modem is typically supplied by an Internet Service Provider
•
Small network
o In smaller networks (like home networks), the modem may act as a router, switch,
wireless access point, and/or firewall
o Most ISPs will supply modem/router/access point combinations for their
residential
customers
o A modem can be simply a modem, with no other functions (example Speedtouch
modem)
•
Large network
o In larger networks, the modem is “bridged” so that it acts as a modem only
All other configuration features of the modem become inaccessible
o Customer supplies separate router, switch, firewall, and access point

== Bridge
Bridge— a Layer 2 (data link layer) device that connects two network segments
and controls traffic moving between them

Bridge

Here is a diagram explaining the function of a bridge. The bridge takes the
digital signal from the Wireless environment and converts it for use with a
wired entertainment component.

Bridge diagram

Bridge
•
Connects two networks so that they act as one network
•
A bridge is different from a router, which connects two separate networks in a
way that keeps
them distinct
•
Bridge functions
o A bridge will pass routing, DHCP, and other services between the two network
segments
o Records the address of each network device and the side of the bridge that it
is
connected to
o Forwards data to the correct side of the bridge based on its destination
address
•
Examples of bridges
o Wireless bridge can receive a Wi-Fi signal and convert it into an ethernet
(wired)
signal.  Can connect a Wi-Fi bridge to a NIC or switch and provide it with
network
access in an area where no ethernet port is available
o Can use two long-range point-to-point Wi-Fi antennas to connect two networks
together in an area where installing a cable is not possible.  An example is a
Ubiquiti

== Patch panel
Patch Panel— a physical panel with multiple connection points used as a central
location to interconnect devices and ports on a network. This allows for an
organized cabling structure to manage dozens or hundreds of interconnections.

Patch panel

Cable management is always important. It is especially important when there are
a large number of users assigned and the cable closet is not particularly roomy.
The purpose of a patch panel is to connect and manage inbound and outbound
cables in a central area. Typically, the destination would be labeled on the
panel and lead to a wall jack. Presented below is a good example of a
well-organized patch panel. Take a good look. Notice the really precise cable
routing and management of four switches in a well-kept server space. Most
installations start out like this.

Patch Panel

Patch Panel
•
Ethernet cables/fiber optic cables terminate from a patch panel (in the back of
the panel) to a
network jack (in a wall, typically)
•
The patch panel and wall jacks should be labelled so that they can be identified
•
A patch cable is connected from the front of patch panel to the switch (or other
appropriate
network device)
•
Good security practice is to patch in only the ports that are in use
•
There are many models of patch panels (Copper and Fiber)
o Copper Patch Panels

Manufactured to Cat5e, Cat6, or Cat6A standards

12-port, 24-port or 48-port are common sizes

24-port and 48-port panels fit into standard network racks; 12-port patch
panels can be wall-mounted
o Fiber Optic Patch Panels

Less common

Typically used to connect multiple server rooms together
Can be rack-mounted or wall-mounted
o Other types of patch panels

BIX, 110-block, 66-block for copper phone wiring

Coaxial patch panels
== Power over Ethernet (PoE)
Power over Ethernet (PoE)— a technology, usually incorporated into switches,
that delivers power to devices over data lines (Ethernet) rather than having a
separate power cord


Ethernet over Power – EOP

We will talk about two conceptually similar but vastly different technologies
here. Your objectives call for The Ethernet over Power (EOP) technology. This
type of power distribution allows for energy and Ethernet to share the same
cabling. This allows for communication, command, and control signals to be sent
along with the main power supply.

PoE
•
Power over Ethernet
•
Allows us to transmit power and data over an ethernet cable simultaneously
•
Provides power to APs, VoIP Phones, IP Cameras, etc.
•
A PoE device may accept power from an AC-DC adapter instead of through PoE
•
There are two ways to transmit PoE: from a switch or over a power injector
•
 
=== Injectors
    Injectors: A PoE injector is used to add power to a data cable going to a
    PoE device like an IP phone or IP camera.

Power Injector
o Power injector sits between the switch and the device requiring power
o Power injector requires a normal power outlet
o Good for when there is no PoE switch and a PoE device needs to be powered
o A power injector can only power one device
o If you have many PoE devices, a PoE switch is better than multiple power
injectors
=== Switch
    Switch: A PoE switch is a network switch that supplies power to its Ethernet
    ports to power PoE devices.

Switch
o A PoE-capable switch will provide PoE, different switches have different
wattage
capacities
o It’s important to select a switch with enough wattage for the devices that you
are
connecting
o Some switches may support PoE on only some ports
o A switch can automatically detect if a connected device requires power, and
then
supply PoE
o You can toggle the power on a switch port, if it is a managed switch

Useful for remotely rebooting connected devices such as APs and cameras, if
they crash
•

== Ethernet over Power
Ethernet over Power (EoP)— a technology that uses standard electrical wiring to
interconnect Ethernet devices




Power over Ethernet- PoE

The PoE (Power over Ethernet) system reverses this existing technology using
Ethernet cable as its primary carrier.  This impacts the effective Volt/Amp
delivery as the RJ grade cable is not rated to carry the higher voltages some
devices require. It is however ideal for a low voltage operation such as a
security monitor or a baby monitor.

Phone over Ethernet – Upside down!
PoE Injectors vs. PoE switch

A PoE injector provides data and power to a single device. A PoE switch on the
other hand is capable of distributing power and data to all connected devices.

Ethernet Over Power
•
Uses two adapters to transmit ethernet over a high-voltage electrical system
•
Connect one adapter to the network and to a power outlet; connect the other
adapter to a
power outlet and to a device requiring network access
•
Good for houses or other building where it is not practical/possible to install
ethernet cable
Can also provide PoE
