---
title: 2.3-Given-a-scenario,-install-and-configure-a-basic-wired-wireless-SOHO-network
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-57
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 2.3-Given-a-scenario,-install-and-configure-a-basic-wired-wireless-SOHO-network
= 2.3 Given a scenario, install and configure a basic wired/wireless SOHO network.


Network Installation and Configuration (scenario)

You should be able to install and configure small-office/home-office (SOHO)
network using wired and wireless devices in a given scenario.


== Router/switch functionally
Router/Switch Functionality

Routers and switches provide connectivity and control traffic on the network.
Switches are Layer 2 (data link layer) devices that endpoint devices connect to.
Routers are Layer 3 (network layer) devices that interconnect different
networks.

In a SOHO network, there is typically one router provided by the Internet
Service Provider (ISP) that connects the local area network to the Internet. SOH
routers often have other integrated features, such as a cable modem or DSL
modem, switch ports, and/or a wireless access point.

The switch, whether integrated into the router or as a separate device, is what
the local computers and other devices connect to via physical Ethernet ports on
the switch. The switch interconnects devices on the local area network.


Router/switch functionality

SOHO networks will usually contain a number of switches and at least one router.
Looking at the switch first, a switch operates at layer 2 of the OSI model. It
is responsible for providing collision free, full duplex communications between
network hosts using MAC addressing. A switch can accommodate different speeds
such as 10/100 Mbps and Gigabit connections without data loss. Consider the
switch as a LAN device.

The router operates at layer 3 and uses IP addresses to identify other routers,
enabling Internet connectivity. Switches connect to routers to access all
external content. Since the router receives MAC addresses with the switch
communications, the router can control access with MAC filtering.

Router Configuration
•
Power on the router/switch
•
Connect the router’s WAN port to the ISPs modem
•
Configure the name of the router
•
Configure the WAN IP address of the router based on details from the ISP, including
o DHCP or Static
o If static, add IP address, gateway address, subnet mask, DNS server addresses
•
Configure IP address for router
•
Configure size/class of network
•
Configure DHCP
o Provide a range of addresses that will be part of DHCP pool
o Configure DHCP reservations based on MAC address if necessary
•
Configure remote management if needed

Basic Switch Configuration
•
Connect switch to router’s LAN port via ethernet cable
•
Power on switch
•
Configure switch name
•
Configure switch IP address for management
•
Configure security rules for switch
•
For each port
o Configure VLANs handled by port
o Configure port name/description
o Configure port security
o Configure PoE
o Shutdown unused ports
== Access point settings
Access Point Settings

The wireless access point built into the router requires some configuration. At
a minimum, you should configure the Service Set Identifier (SSID), encryption
method, and pre-shared key (also called WiFi password).

Access point settings

A wireless access point (WAP) can be configured, through its web-based setup
page, to extend the range of your existing wireless network. This is
accomplished by configuring the WAP using the existing SSID. WAPs can also be
configured as wireless repeaters.

Access Point Settings
•
Install antennas if necessary
•
Mount Access Point to wall/ceiling, or another appropriate place
•
Connect Access Point to switch
•
Connect Access Point to Power Injector or AC/DC adapter if switch does not support PoE
•
Configure settings
o Configure SSIDs (may have multiple SSIDs)
o Select security type (WPA, WPA2, WPA Enterprise) for each SSID
o Decide if the SSID will be hidden
o Select password, or connect AP to authentication server
o Configure security such as whitelists, blacklists, or MAC address filtering
o Configure guest Wi-Fi, if necessary
•
Configure power settings
o Choose between 2.4GHz and 5GHz or both
o Choose channel
o Choose broadcast power  
o In a larger system, the APs may automatically adjust their channel and/or broadcast
== IP addressing
IP Addressing

The router is configured with default IP address settings that get you up and
running quickly. In most cases, you can leave the settings at the default
values. The router’s DHCP feature assigns IP addresses to devices when they
connect to the network. Again, the default settings will work in most cases, but
you can change DHCP settings or turn it off altogether.

IP Addressing

Next on our list is the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP). I can’t say
enough good stuff about this. Imagine having 50 or so users who need to connect
to not only the LAN but the internet as well. This is small considering what you
will face in the field. However without DHCP, you would have to enter each
device configuration individually on each device. This includes a complete
address (IPv4 and IPv6), the subnet mask, the default gateway, and DNS servers.


DHCP automatically sets up the entire configuration, saving you the headache of
manual configuration. In some cases, for example machines that should not “move”
in terms of their addressing such as web, DNS, and email servers, these machines
would use static or manual addressing for reliable discovery by all clients.
Here is a typical residential/SOHO configuration. Examine the configuration and
picture manually adding this to each client along with the DNS settings.

DHCP Configuration Panel

IP Addressing
•
IPv4 addresses range from 0.0.0.0 to 255.255.255.255
•
IP addresses are assigned in blocks to different Internet Service Providers.  For example, AT&T
has been assigned the IP addresses 12.0.0.0 to 12.255.255.255.  An ISP can assign one or
more IP addresses to their customers.  These are known as public IP addresses.
•
Three ranges of IP addresses are reserved for internal networks.  These are known as private
IP addresses.  When setting up an internet network, you have a choice of three IP address
schemes (IPv4)
Class A
Class A
Range of IP addresses: 10.0.0.0 - 10.255.255.255
Most common for corporate networks
 
Class B
Range of IP addresses: 172.16.0.0 -
172.31.255.255
 
Class C
Range of IP addresses: 192.168.0.0 -
192.168.255.255
Most common for home networks
 
•
You must choose the following
o Class of network
o Subnet mask.  The subnet mask determines the number of IP addresses in the
network (255.255.255.0 is a common mask and limits the network to 255 IP addresses)
DHCP IP Addresses
o DHCP = Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
o DHCP means that when a device joins the network, a DHCP server automatically
assigns it an IP address (DHCP server also provides the device with the network’s
gateway IP address, subnet mask, and DNS server IP addresses)
o When you configure the network, decide which devices, if any, will have DHCP
o Configure a DHCP server (a router can function as a DHCP server, but so can a
o Choose the range of addresses that will be used for DHCP
o User devices such as laptops, desktops, and IP phones should be DHCP
o If a specific device should be assigned the same IP address over DHCP, set up a DHCP
reservation
•
Static IP Addresses
o Permanent devices such as printers, servers, IP cameras, and access points should
have static IP addresses
o A static IP address can be set over a DHCP reservation or programmed as a static IP
address directly into the device
•
IPv4 vs IPv6
o IPv6 addresses are longer, but follow the same concepts as IPv4
o IPv6 was introduced because the world is running out of IPv4 addresses
o IPv6 addresses follow a hierarchical routing scheme
== NIC configuration
NIC Configuration

Computer connect to the network through a network interface card (NIC). It is
here that you configure the IP address of the computer. If you enable DHCP, the
NIC will get assigned an IP address by the DHCP server that is typically
integrated into the router. Otherwise, you can manually configure the IP
address, subnet mask, and default gateway.

NIC configuration

Your network interface card (NIC) lets your device access the network. Your
connection can be wired or wireless but will require an IP address, subnet mask,
DNS server and default gateway.


=== Wired
Wired

For NICs that connect via an Ethernet cable to the router, they will get the
configuration from DHCP, unless you disable DHCP. Then you need to manually
configure the IP address, subnet mask, and default gateway.

Wired

You can see the MAC address, status, and link speed while viewing the properties
for the Ethernet connection along with the DHCP status and address. The IPv4 and
  IPv6 properties are also shown including the device addresses, default
  gateway, and DNS Servers. Manual configuration is performed in the Network and
  Sharing Center where you can configure the information discussed above, the
  subnet mask, and configure an alternate configuration.

Ethernet Settings in Windows 10


=== Wireless
Wireless

For wireless NICs, it is the same as wired, plus you need to configure it to
connect to the wireless access point. The settings for that include the SSID,
encryption method, and pre-shared key or WiFi password.

Wireless

Your wireless NIC configuration settings will be essentially similar to the
wired settings. You will see that the wireless connection has obtained both IPv4
and IPv6 addresses that are operational with the IPv6 having both link-local and
global addresses. Also note the two gateways. Further configuration details are
not displayed, such as the SSID, but are required, particularly the encryption
settings which are set manually in the Network and Sharing Center.

Wireless NIC Settings in Windows 10


== End-user device configuration
End-User Device Configuration

Other types of end-user devices, such as smartphones and tablets, typically use
WiFi to connect to the network. So, the configuration is the same as you would
do for a wireless NIC. You need to configure it to connect to the wireless
  access point by setting the SSID, encryption method, and pre-shared key or
  WiFi password. Then you will get an IP address from DHCP or you need to
  manually configure the IP address, subnet mask, and default gateway.

End User Device Configuration
•
Ethernet vs Wi-Fi
o If the device is ethernet, connecting an ethernet cable between the switch and the
device’s NIC should automatically establish the connection
o If the device is Wi-Fi, select the correct Wi-Fi SSID from the list, enter the correct
password, username/password combination, or certificate.  If the network is hidden,
enter the hidden SSID and then the password.
•
DHCP vs Static
o If the device is DHCP, make sure that the network settings are set to DHCP
o If the device is static, manually configure the static IP address in the network
properties (don’t forget to configure the subnet mask gateway, and DNS servers)
== IoT device configuration
IoT Device Configuration

Internet of Things (IoT) devices are essentially anything that connects to the
Internet. Some examples are:

    Thermostats
    Light switches
    Security cameras
    Door locks
    Voice-enabled, smart speaker/digital assistant

They connect via WiFi, so the configuration settings are the same as an end-user
device. However, the way you access those settings will be different. Depending
on the device, it may be a control panel on the device or it may be done using a
mobile app.

IoT device configuration

The concept of the Internet of things (IoT) describes the many diverse things
that can communicate and be controlled wirelessly using the Internet via a
smartphone app. This technology is useful in business but your interaction with
the IoT will probably begin at home. The technologies used in this operation
will be discussed in the next article. For now, we’ll identify them as Wi-Fi,
Bluetooth, Zigbee and Z-Wave.

Devices can be controlled directly by your smartphone or a voice activated
digital assistant. With the right equipment, you can adjust your thermostat on
the way home, to set your preferred temperature, and turn on the lights. An
important benefit of IoT is the ability to lock your doors. At some point, all
of us have been away and have wondered if we locked the door. Now, simply tap an
icon in your app and the door is locked.

Home security has benefited greatly from IoT devices. Besides locking the doors,
motion activated cameras with speakers can be installed to watch for intruders
or parcel thieves as well as allow you to communicate with them. That’s a great
deterrent. Your voice activated internet connected digital assistant will help
you keep track of your devices.

IoT Device Configuration
•
Tens of thousands of IoT devices are available on the market; this is not an exhaustive list
•
There are two main configuration parameters for an IoT device
o Network connection (static vs DHCP, and ethernet vs Wi-Fi)
o Other parameters specific to the device (thermometer temperature, camera recording
time, etc.)
•
Network connection
o There are several ways that a network connection can be configured, depending on
the device
o Read the manual
o Ethernet-connected device

Includes PoE devices such as cameras

Connect the camera to the network and allow it to power on

Device will automatically obtain an IP address over DHCP, or it might be
configured with a static IP address

Use a network scanner or check the router’s status page to determine IP
address assigned to device.

Go to the IP address in a web browser to access the device’s configuration
page

Find the network settings page and change IP address to static.  Why?  Easier
to locate and connect to the device in the future, set up port forwarding, and
connect the device to other systems.
o Wi-Fi device with user interface/touchpad

Access settings menu from device’s screen

Select correct Wi-Fi SSID and insert password

Allow device to connect to Wi-Fi

Change IP address to static
o Wi-Fi device with no user interface – USB

Power on device

Connect device to computer via USB and run software setup wizard

Wizard will copy correct Wi-Fi/IP address settings to device

Allow device to connect to Wi-Fi

Device will begin operating
o Wi-Fi device with no user interface – ad hoc Wi-Fi

When you power up the device for the first time, it will broadcast a unique
SSID (as a Wi-Fi network)

Connect to the SSID from a computer

Browse to the configuration page via a web browser or run a software setup
wizard

Wizard will copy Wi-Fi/IP address/configuration settings

Disconnect from device and allow it to connect to network
•
Other Configurations
o Once a device is connected to the network/cloud, there are three ways to configure it

Visit the IP address of the device in a web browser to access configuration
page

User interface (screen/buttons) if device has one

Cloud website / app, if device connects to cloud
•
 
=== Thermostat
Other parameters
o Thermostat

Example includes Nest thermostat

Configure temperatures and schedules

=== Light switches
o Light Switch

Example includes Leviton light switches

Configure schedule for turning lights on/off, and LED colors

=== Security cameras
o Security Camera

Example includes Ring.com cameras

Configure recording time, sensitivity, alerts for when camera detects motion

=== Door locks
o Door Lock

Example includes Yale lock

Configure password, keys, authorized users, schedules

=== Voice-enabled, smart speaker/digital assistant
o Digital Assistant

Example includes Amazon Alexa
Configure name, authorized users

Digital Assistants typically have artificial intelligence and record all interactions,
so that they can become smarter over time
== Cable/DSL modem configuration
Cable/DSL Modem Configuration

A cable modem or digital subscriber line (DSL) modem connects your premises to
the Internet. More specifically, it connects you to you Internet Service
Provider (ISP). So, the basic configuration will typically be done by the ISP,
either remotely or by an onsite technician. The physical connection depends upon
which type of service you have.

A DSL modem connects to a traditional copper wire Plain Old Telephone System
(POTS) line. POTS is also referred to as the Public Switched Telephone Network
(PSTN). It uses an RJ-11 connector to connect to a standard phone jack. A cable
modem is connected to a cable TV line using coaxial cable.

Cable/DSL Modem Configuration/ Wireless settings

5 GHz Modem/ Router Configuration Panel

You can see the absence of the reserved channels by reviewing the available
channels and noting the gap between Channels 48 and 149. 149 is the default
setting so we’ll leave it alone. If there are connection problems, check the
channel and ensure the Mode supports all of your devices. Also in our case,
switch to another channel, possibly in the lower end of the band. You can also
  choose your encryption type which could prevent connections in the case of a
  mismatch. Most residential SOHO routers default to WPA/WPA2 (TKIP/AES),
  allowing most devices to communicate their credentials and start a session.
  The WPA2 (AES) method is faster if your devices support it.

Cable/DSL Modem Configuration
•
Typically, a modem automatically downloads its configuration from the ISP
•
If the modem fails, you can perform a factory reset on the modem
•
Modem with additional functions (router, switch, AP) can be configured as per those settings
(already discussed)
 
 
== Firewall settings
Firewall Settings

A firewall protects your network by blocking traffic that may be used for
malicious purposes. Most SOHO networks do not run servers that need to be
accessed from the Internet, so any traffic would be initiated from inside the
network. That means the firewall can be configured to simply deny any traffic
initiated from the Internet. That is the default configuration for many
firewalls, especially those integrated into a router. While that will work in
most situations, there are a few settings that may need to be configured, as
described below.

Firewall Settings
•
 
=== DMZ
DMZ

A demilitarized zone is a separate network behind your firewall where you place
hosts that may be accessed from the Internet, such as a web server. First, you
configure the network by assigning the IP address range for the network. Then,
you specify which IP addresses are allowed to access which hosts on the DMZ.
Lastly, you can specify which services or ports may be used.

DMZ

You know by now that a DMZ (Demilitarized Zone) is a network area outside of
your private network that is exposed to any and all traffic on the internet. On
the surface, this just looks like trouble. However, there are good reasons to
have this zone. Your web server for example is a prime example of effective DMZ
utilization as the web server can get hammered with traffic and your LAN will be
impervious to it. The services you offer can be delivered without risk.

The main aim is to have a DMZ server receive the traffic that would normally get
dropped by the firewall. The most important point in this configuration is that
the hosts in the DMZ cannot connect to the LAN. The LAN on the other hand can
connect to anything in the DMZ and the untrusted public network (internet). The
DMZ server has access to everything entirely except your LAN.

DMZ
o Demilitarized zone
o Allows an internal network device (such as a web server or e-mail server) to access the
internet
o Devices in the DMZ are considered less secure than the internal network and have
only limited connectivity to devices in the internal network
o Configuration options

Name of DMZ (can have multiple DMZs)

IP address range of DMZ

DHCP reservations/range of DMZ

Configure rules for allowing traffic to access devices on the DMZ (but not the
LAN)
•

=== Port forwarding
Port Forwarding

Port forwarding is another way to allow access to your network from the
Internet. It is similar to a DMZ but allows traffic to a single host. You
specify the host and the port allowed to access it.

Port Forwarding

The port forwarding technique allows incoming connections, on a particular port
or port range, to be delivered to a single specific address or host on the LAN.
This is quite useful if you are running a Web server as you’d want all new
inbound traffic on port 80 to go to that device only. This requires no action on
the server’s part since it will respond to specific valid requests. Here’s how
that configuration would look on a SOHO. Your inbound port 80 traffic, from your
public IP address, would be directed to the Private IP of the server.

Port Forwarding Configuration Panel

Port Triggering is a variation on this process and requires an outbound
communication to “trigger” that port to receive traffic. This inbound connection
will only be available during a session after which it timeout.

Port Forwarding
o Not recommended (use a VPN instead)
o Traffic received on a specific port can be forwarded to a specific internal IP address
and port
o Advantage

Allows us to access internal device from outside the network
o Disadvantage

Exposes internal devices to the internet.
o For example,

Network’s public IP address is 201.201.201.201

Server on LAN has private IP address of 192.192.192.192

We want to use RDP (port 3389) to connect to the server from outside the
network.  Inside the network, we can connect to the server via
192.192.192.192:3389 (our internal network can find the server).

Outside the network, we must type 201.201.201.201:3389, but if the network
has many devices, the router won’t know that it should send the traffic to the
server.

We set up a port forwarding rule like this:
Source Port: 3389
•
Destination Port: 3389
•
Destination IP: 192.192.192.192

Now the router knows that traffic coming in on port 3389 (regardless of the
source IP) should be directed to 192.192.192.192, port 3389.

If you can’t avoid using port forwarding, you should set up a rule for denying
access except to specific, known IP addresses.
=== NAT
NAT

Network Address Translation is used to translate all of your network’s internal
IP addresses to a single external IP address that will be used on the Internet.
The ISP assigns this address, and it is configured on the router by the ISP.

NAT

NAT stands for Network Address Translation and concerns the translation of one
network address to another address. This, in the vast majority of cases, allows
the translation of a group of private addresses to communicate externally
through a single address, such as the static public address assigned to you by
your ISP. This many-to-one concept is a common practice, even for large
organizations not wishing to expose their networks to the uncontrollable
internet.

Network Address Translation – NAT

More often than not and in spite of DHCP, a NAT client will typically get the
same address every time it connects, unless other circumstances prevent it such
as a small available pool of addresses. This is where the combination of PAT
(Port Address Translation) and NAT combine to form DNAT (Destination Network
Address Translation). Adding the port to the IP address allows for up to 64,000
addresses to exist from a single IP address.

NAT
o Network Address Translation
o The router separates the external (public) network from the internal (private) network
o The router will be assigned a public IP address on the public (WAN) interface (its
connection with the modem)

You may need to statically assign this address in the router
o The router will be assigned a private IP address on the private interface (its connection
with the switch)

You may need to statically assign this address in the router
o The router receives traffic (data packets) from private devices on the network,
destined for the internet, and receives traffic (data packets) from the internet, destined
for devices on the LAN
o The router will convert the source address/destination address before forwarding
packets between internal/external networks
o For example

Our router has a public IP of 100.100.100.1 and a private IP of 192.192.192.1

A device on our internal network has a private IP of 192.192.192.2

The device on our network wants to communicate with a device on the
internet (which has a public IP address of 100.100.100.2)

The device creates a data packet and addresses it as follows
Source: 192.192.192.2
•
Destination: 100.100.100.2
The device realizes that the destination isn’t on the local network.  Therefore,
it sends the packet to the router, and the router sends it to the internet device
at 100.100.100.2

The router changes the packet’s address to the following before sending it
over the internet:
•
Source: 100.100.100.1
•
Destination: 100.100.100.2

The device at 100.100.100.2 receives the packet

The device at 100.100.100.2 wants to reply.  It only knows the address of the
router; therefore, it creates a packet with the following details:
•
Source: 100.100.100.2
•
Destination: 100.100.100.1

The router at 100.100.100.1 receives the packet and changes it to the following:
•
Source: 100.100.100.2
•
Destination: 192.192.192.2

The router forwards the packet to the internal device at 192.192.192.2
o Why do we bother with NAT?

The internet has a limited number of public IP addresses.  We may have
thousands of devices on our internal network.  An ISP doesn’t have enough
addresses to assign a public IP address to each of our devices.  Instead, they
assign a single public IP to our router.  All the devices on our network must
share the same public IP.

Even if we could assign a public IP address to each device, we don’t want to
expose the many devices on our network directly to the internet.  We prefer a
private IP for each device.

Therefore, NAT allows multiple devices to access the internet through a single
=== UPnP
UPnP

Universal Plug and Play is an alternative to manually configuring port
forwarding. If enabled, UPnP allows devices inside your network to automatically
allow access from the Internet by opening access through the router to that
device on a specified port.

UPnP

UPnP provides automatic discovery of available hosts and services on the local
network. It should be used with caution as it is easily exploitable by hackers.
If you use UPnP, many of your security measures are overridden.

UPnP
o Like port forwarding
o Allows different port numbers to be used between the internal and external networks
o Good for when we have multiple internal services that function on the same port
For example,

Server 1 has an internal IP of 192.192.192.1, and is accessible over RDP on port
3389

Server 2 has an internal IP of 192.192.192.2, and is accessible over RDP on port
3389

Internally, we can access both servers by going to either 192.192.192.1:3389 or
192.192.192.2:3389

We have one public IP of 200.200.200.200

If we set up port forwarding of 3389, we can only forward to one internal
destination.  What if we want to access both servers?

We set up the following
•
Rule #1
o Source Port: 3389
o Destination Port: 3389
o Destination IP : 192.192.192.1
•
Rule #2
o Source Port: 3390
o Destination Port: 3389
o Destination IP: 192.192.192.2

From outside the network, we can connect the following now:
•
200.200.200.200:3389 connects us to 192.192.192.1:3389
•
200.200.200.200:3390 connects us to 192.192.192.2:3389
•
 
=== Whitelist/blacklist
Whitelist/Blacklist

Content filtering is a feature of routers and firewalls that control what URLs
can be accessed from your network. There are two methods to use, whitelist or
blacklist. Most routers use blacklist by default. That allows access to any URL
except those specified on a blacklist that you configure. Conversely,
whitelisting blocks all URLs by default. Only URLs that you configure in the
whitelist can be accessed.

Whitelist/blacklist

Network access can be permitted or restricted based upon whitelists and/or
blacklists. Routers and switches can be configured to enforce a blacklist which
allows network access to everyone except those listed on the blacklist.
Conversely, a white list blocks all traffic except those on the whitelist.

Whitelist/Blacklist
o Allows us to override firewall rules
o Traffic from addresses on the whitelist is allowed
o Traffic from addresses on the blacklist is denied
•

=== MAC filtering
MAC Filtering

Every device that connects to the network has a Media Access Control (MAC)
address. MAC filtering allows you to specify which MAC addresses are allowed to
connect to your router. Anyone trying to connect with a MAC address not listed
in your MAC filtering table will be denied access.


MAC filtering

In addition to white/black listing, network devices can implement MAC filtering.
This technique uses the filter list to permit access to the devices on the list.
This process becomes more tedious as a network grows.

MAC Filtering
o Allows us to filter traffic by MAC address
o Traffic entering the network via the internet will not have a MAC address (MAC
address data is not shared across networks), only IP addresses
o We can create a whitelist of authorized devices by
Devices are blocked from connecting to the internal network if their MAC
address isn’t on the list
o A MAC address can be spoofed
== QoS
QoS

Quality of Service allows you to prioritize different types of traffic on your
network. This is helpful for applications that need real-time communications,
such as voice, video, and gaming. You can give these services priority over
others that are less sensitive to delays, like email.

Basic QoS

It’s easy to envision the need for prioritization of programs and services as
there is always contention for bandwidth. The most obvious example of this would
be an environment where basic QoS (Quality of Service) is not available and you
are on a VoIP phone call. You receive an email and your conversation breaks up
for a short period of time. This is because the email program has the same
  priority on the connection as your phone call. This is easily fixed with QoS.

To enable QoS, each device on the network must have QoS enabled. Most NICs have
it enabled by default. Routers and both ends of any communication must also have
QoS enabled. The router is one of the main choke points in the service. If you
find less than optimal network performance for a particular application, such as
video conferencing, you can increase its priority on your router.

Most routers have built-in settings for popular programs. Some can be blocked
and others increased or decreased based on your needs. Think carefully about
your choices because setting too many programs to the highest priority level
does not help. The priority of the network’s use must be carefully evaluated
before you make any wholesale changes. Remember that real time A/V communication
is dependent on uninterrupted packet transmission and reception and takes
precedence over an upload or download.

QoS
•
Quality of Service
•
Allows us to prioritize specific types of traffic on the network to avoid poor quality
transmission
•
The quality of a network transmission is measured in the following areas
o Packet loss: data sent over a network is broken up into chunks called packets.  The
percentage of packets that don’t arrive at their destination is called packet loss.
o Bit rate: the speed of the connection (how much data/second we can receive)
o Latency: the amount of time it takes a packet to travel from the source to the
destination.  If the time is long, there could be a noticeable delay in the signal,
especially for VoIP or Video conferencing.
o Jitter: whether the packets arrive in the correct order.  In a VoIP signal, if the packets
don’t arrive in the correct order, then the conversation will not be in the correct order.
•
We should prioritize the following types of traffic
o Streaming media
o Voice Over IP
o Video Conferencing
o Critical systems such as industrial control systems and medical systems
== Wireless settings
Wireless Settings

Most wireless settings on a router run well at their default settings, but there
are a few that you may want to configure, as described below.

Wireless Settings
•
Mentioned earlier
•
Configure encryption type on the Access Point
WEP
Wired Equivalent Privacy
 
Uses a 40-bit password key
Easily broken and not acceptable for security
WPA
Wi-Fi Protected Access – First Version
 
Obsolete
Was developed as a temporary replacement for
WEP (when security problems were discovered)
and quickly replaced by WPA2
 
WPA2
Wi-Fi Protected Access – Second Version
 
Current Wi-Fi security in use in most
organizations
Uses a Four-way handshake and password to
secure the connection.  Wireless device and
access point automatically complete handshake.
 
WPA3
Wi-Fi Protected Access – Third Version
 
New standard being implemented in newer
wireless devices
Uses a 128-bit key (a password)
 
WPA2 Enterprise
Wi-Fi Protected Access – Second Version –
Requires a username and password
Access Point must connect to an authentication
Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS)
Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS)
 
Allows devices with no user interface (such as
printers and IoT devices) to connect to Wi-Fi
Not secure
WPA3 will solve issues created by WPS
=== Encryption
Encryption

Encryption is configured to control communications between the end-user device
and the wireless access point. If not encrypted, all of your traffic can be read
by a simple network monitoring tool. There are three types of encryption
available: Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP), WiFi Protected Access (WPA), and
WPA2. WEP and WPA both have vulnerabilities that make it easy to break the
encryption, so you should set this to WPA2. It uses the AES encryption
algorithm.

Encryption/ Channels

The 802.11 family of wireless standards uses one channel to communicate. This
channel is set by the network administrator, in a business environment, or the
home user, in a SOHO environment. As you will see, the available channels are
not plentiful as there are between 1 and 3 channels that you can use in the 2.4
GHz band. We will focus mainly on the SOHO deployment here per the objectives.
In the 5GHZ band there can be as many as 8 channels. In the US, the 5GHZ band is
subject to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) restrictions limiting to four
channels in the lower end of the band (5.250–5.350 GHz) and five in the upper
end of the band (5.470–5.725 GHz).


=== Channels

Channels

Channels are different frequencies that are used for communications between the
end-user device and the wireless access point. This will be selected
automatically, but you can manually set it as well. It may be helpful if there
are other nearby access points and you can set it to a less crowded channel.

Configure Channel
o 2.4GHz

When we say that a Wi-Fi network is 2.4GHz, that means that the frequency of
the Wi-Fi signal is 2.4GHz

If two nearby networks broadcast at the same frequency, the signals will
interfere, and nobody will be able to connect

To solve this problem, we divide the 2.4GHz spectrum into 11 channels:  each
channel is 22MHz wide, spaced 5MHz apart.

Therefore, a 2.4GHz network can broadcast on 2.412GHz, 2.417GHz,
2.422GHz, etc.

It’s not important to know all the channels and their exact range.  It’s
important to know that there are 11 channels.

If two neighboring networks choose different channels, they will each
broadcast on a slightly different frequency – different enough that their signals
won’t interfere.

We can manually select the channel that we want to broadcast on
•
We should survey the neighboring networks to see what channels they
are broadcasting on and select a different channel from all of them

If we have multiple access points in a building and their signals overlap, we
o 5GHz

The channel concept applies to 5GHz networks as well

A 5GHz spectrum is divided into 23 channels, each is 20MHz wide

A 5GHz spectrum can broadcast on 5.150GHz, 5.1570GHz, etc.

There are more regulations for the 5GHz network and some countries do not
allow some frequencies (they could interfere with weather radar and other
systems)
•
Two Access Points on the same network, but installed close to each other and operating on
the same channel would block each other’s signal
o If we have neighboring access points, we should configure different channels for each
one
o We could also reduce the broadcast power to ensure that the access point signals
don’t overlap
•
More advanced access points (such as Meraki) can detect interference & neighboring access
points, and automatically adjust their channels and broadcast power
•
Configure QoS
o Some Wi-Fi devices allow you to prioritize traffic between the Access Point and the
=== QoS

