---
title: 2.4-Compare-and-contrast-wireless-networking-protocols
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-57
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 2.4-Compare-and-contrast-wireless-networking-protocols
= 2.4 Compare and contrast wireless networking protocols.

Wireless Networking Protocols

You need to understand the different wireless networking protocols, what they
have in common, and where they differ.

Network Host Services


In this section, we will dissect CompTIA 220-901 sub objective 2.5 which deals
with wireless encryption standards and encryption. The 802.11 family is an
important area to understand and fundamentally is specification based,
consisting of alpha designations, frequencies, speeds, distances, and common
problems. These are all testable. We’ll also follow that up with covered
encryption types.

Standards

We will try to keep it simple while conveying the pertinent information about
the 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac family. This is your key to defining the standard and its
capabilities and compatibilities. Understand that different countries have
different regulations regarding radio power levels (range) and the number of
channels available for transmission. We will deal exclusively with the US
specification.

In the US, we have 11 channels available of the 14 possible in the 2.4GHz
frequency, of which only non-overlapping channels can be used. Channel 14 is
unavailable because it does not have the required channel separation. Each
transmission channel takes 20 – 22MHz and must be separated by roughly 16 to
22MHz, leaving only three free channels for practical use. These free channels
are 1, 6 and 11 for 802.11b/g/n. In a pure 802.11n zone, 40MHz a channel is
used. This is easily understood in the graphic shown.

Wi-Fi Network Standards
•
All 802.11 Wi-Fi protocols are regulated by IEEE (Institute of Electrical and
Electronics
Engineers)
•
Considered a “one-to-many” connection
•
It’s important to understand that a wireless antenna can only communicate with
one device at
a time
o To communicate with multiple devices at the same time, the access point must
cycle
between the devices
o This is known as time division multiplexing
o The access point sends data to one device, pauses, sends data to the next
device,
pauses, sends data to the third device, pauses, etc. until it has sent data to
all the
devices.  The it starts sending data to the first device.
o To send data to multiple devices at the same time, an access point must have
multiple
antennas.  This is known as Multiple Input, Multiple Output.
•
An access point or client (computer, phone, Wi-Fi adapter) may support multiple
standards
•
The standards are backwards compatible (for example, an 802.11ac device will
work with an
== 802.11a
802.11 WiFi Specification

The WiFi specification 802.11 is part of the IEEE 802 wireless networking
standards. It is used for WiFi communications. They all use the Ethernet
protocol and Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Avoidance (CSMA/CA)
media access method. The main characteristics that differentiate them are their
operating frequencies, theoretical maximum data speed or throughput.

802.11a—5 Ghz frequency, maximum speed of 54 Mbps, not much in use today

802.11a

This standard is capable of 54Mbps transmissions of up to 50 meters in the 5GHz
band. This is essentially a deprecated standard.

802.11a
1999 Standard
Supports up to 54 Mbps in the 5GHz range
 
== 802.11b
802.11b—2.4 GHz frequency, maximum speed of 11 Mbps

802.11b

This is the first widely adopted Wi-Fi standard. This offers 11Mbps speed with a
distance of 100 meters, with direct line of sight (outdoors), in the more
crowded 2.4 GHz band. It is susceptible to interference from household devices
such as cordless phones and microwave ovens.

802.11b
1999 Standard
Supports up to 11 Mbps in the 2.4GHz range
 

== 802.11g
802.11g—2.4 GHz frequency, maximum speed of 54 Mbps

802.11g

This standard is capable of 54 Mbps speed with a distance of up to 100 meters
outdoors in the 2.4GHz band.

802.11g
2003 Standard
Up to 54 Mbps in the 2.4GHz range
 

== 802.11n
802.11n—2.4 and 5 GHz frequencies, maximum speed of 600 Mbps. The boost in
throughput is due to the use of multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO)
technology. It transmits and receives multiple signals that can overcome
interference and combine for greater throughput.

802.11n

This standard is capable of speeds up to 600Mbps using up to four emulated
full-duplex Multi In Multi Out (MIMO) antennae. These antennae can send and
receive virtually simultaneously, using Time Division Multiplexing (TDM) which
slices the transmissions into imperceptible chunks that give the impression of
full-duplex. All 802.11 family standards are half-duplex. Before this
advancement, Wi-Fi signals did not use the multiplexing duplex and as a result,
only one party in the communication could send data at a time. TDM, along with
multiple antennae, greatly increased performance. 802.11n operates in both the
2.4 and 5 GHz bands for backward compatibility. As with any radio-based
transmissions, the signal weakens as the distance from the transmitter
increases.

802.11n
2009 Standard
Supports multiple-input, multiple-output
(MIMO) – a device with multiple antennas
Up to 72.2 Mbps with one send and one receive
Up to 450 Mbps with three send and three

== 802.11ac
802.11ac—5 GHz frequency, maximum speed of 7 Gbps. A variation of MIMO,
multi-user MIMO (MU-MIMO), provides greater throughput.

802.11ac

This is the latest implemented standard and can theoretically reach speeds of up
to 7 Gbps using up to eight antennae. The additional antennae allow the 802.11ac
standard to utilize a theoretical channel bandwidth of 80 to 160 MHz.


80 80 MHz and 160 MHz are new with 802.11ac

802.11 ac covers the same distance as 802.11n. The maximum distance is 70 meters
indoors and 250 meters outdoors in the 5GHz band, making it backwards compatible
to 802.11n only. Interestingly, the signal strength does not weaken at the outer
perimeters of coverage. It’s all or nothing. By default Wi-Fi signals are
omni-directional as are the signals from a radio station, distributing the
signal evenly across the coverage area. 802.11ac standardizes the use of
beamforming technology which focuses the transmissions directionally to active
devices, strengthening the signal directionally as opposed to the shotgun blast
nature of traditional Wi-Fi. This gives each device a longer, stronger, and
faster signal that is less likely to encounter significant interference.

802.11ac
2014 Standard
Supports multiple-input, multiple-output
(MIMO)
Up to 433 Mbps per antenna, or 1.3Gbps with
== Frequencies
Frequencies

The two operating frequencies for WiFi are 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz. The frequency has
an impact on transmission range and data throughput.

Frequencies

When we reference frequencies, the 2.4GHz frequency band is everything between
2.4 and 2.5 GHz. The 5GHz frequency band is roughly everything between 5.1 and
5.8GHz.

Now down to the specs.

Beamforming technology

Currently, the recipient of the transmission must support beamforming for it to
be effective.

Here’s a short table that summarizes most of the testable material discussed
above.

Wireless standards for A+ 220-1001 Sub-Objective 2.4

Frequencies
•
Only two frequencies are permitted for Wi-Fi communication – 2.4Ghz and 5Ghz
•
The range of a Wi-Fi signal is 50 to 300 ft
•
The range is affected by signal interference (noise) from neighboring networks
•
Different wall types can block or reduce the signal (glass, concrete, steel will
block signals
more than drywall)
•
=== 2.4 GHz
2.4Ghz—This relatively low frequency (compared with 5 GHz) has a greater
transmission range because it passes through objects such as walls and floors
better. On the negative side, throughput is lower and it is an open frequency
range that other devices use. Devices like cordless phones and microwave ovens
can interfere with it.

2.4 GHz channels

You can see if you used channel 4 with 802.11b/g/n, your transmissions be
corrupted by both channels 1 and 6. As a technician, this is one of the settings
you would check to resolve a Wi-Fi connection or quality problem. Backward
compatibility is also something to check. If you are using 802.11n in
compatibility mode and your users are not getting the advertised speeds, you can
attribute this issue to the bandwidth reduction adjustments needed to comply
with the earlier standards. The only way to get the full value of the “n”
channel is to operate in 802.11n only mode and to upgrade the older NICs. This
is best conveyed in the following graphic if you consider that the 40MHz “n”
channel is broken down to comply with the “b/g” modes when they are used.

Non overlapping channels

2.4Ghz
o 11 Channels
o Longer range and less vulnerable to noise
o Slower speeds
o Older devices use 2.4Ghz
•

=== 5 GHz
5Ghz—At this higher frequency, throughput is faster. On the negative side, the
transmission range is shorter, as the signal gets attenuated by objects such as
walls and floors.

5Ghz
o 23 Channels
o Shorter range and more vulnerable to noise because walls and concrete absorb
the
Faster speeds



== Channels

=== 1-11
Channels 1–11

Channels are different frequencies that are used for communications between the
end-user device and the wireless access point. The 2.4 GHz range has 14
channels, but the top 3 cannot be used in North America, so we have 11 available
channels. Devices will automatically select a channel, but if there seems to be
interference, we can manually select another channel. The 5 GHz range also has
channels, but there is more room in the RF spectrum at that range, so we never
have to set those channels.

Other Wireless Networking Protocols

There are a number of wireless networking protocols beyond just the WiFi
protocols. Each has its own purpose and characteristics.


== Bluetooth
Bluetooth—Bluetooth allows devices to communicate over short distances (10
meters) in a Personal Area Network (PAN). It is typically used to connect
peripherals such as headphones to a laptop or smartphone. It is the IEEE
802.15.1 standard.

Bluetooth

Initial Bluetooth wireless connections were not as fast as its contemporaries
(initially 2MBs). Since that time, the ranges and speeds have been increasing
fairly steadily as shown in the table. Special protocol features allow users to
create Personal Area Networks (PAN).

Characteristics of different Bluetooth versions

Bluetooth
•
One-to-one connection
•
Uses radio waves to connect peripherals and transfer data
•
Devices must “pair” with each other before any data can transfer
•
Typically found in mobile devices
Maximum range is 100m
== NFC
NFC—Near field communication has a very short range of a few inches. It is used
for contactless communications of devices that are right next to one another.
  The most common use today is for contactless payment systems.

NFC

Let’s start with the Connection types available for mobile devices and their
accessories. We have already discussed Wi-Fi and Bluetooth in detail (in prior
ExamNotes) but there is a third type that you need to learn about. This is Near
Field Communication (NFC). NFC is not a new technology and has experienced
resurgence through the proliferation of mobile devices due to its main security
feature, its 10 cm transmission range. Attackers have to be almost touching to
be able to exchange data.

NFC can be used for tap and pay, which exchanges payment information with a NFC
capable reader at the cash register, as well as exchanging contact information
with friends or clients simply by tapping compatible phones together. The
ultimate business card!

NFC
•
Near Field Communication
•
One-to-one connection
•
Typically found in mobile devices and used for contactless payment
•
Range of 4cm
== RFID
RFID—Radio frequency identification uses a radio signal to send information from
an RFID tag with identifying information. This is commonly used to streamline
inventory of tracking applications.

RFID

For authentication/security purposes, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) can
be used to transmit a security token wirelessly without any additional user
input. An RFID tag can also be used to track inventory and many other objects
including your pets!

RFID
 
•
Radio Frequency ID
•
RFID has two components – a tag and a sensor
•
The tag is attached to the item that we want to track or identify.  The sensor
detects the tag.
•
There are two types of tags – active, and passive
o An active tag contains a battery and broadcasts a signal.  The sensor can pick
up the
signal.
o A passive tag contains a wire loop.  When the tag is near a sensor, an
electric signal
from the sensor activates the wire loop, and the sensor and the tag can
communicate.
•
Passive tags are cheaper than active tags
•
A tag can be “read only”, where the data contained on it can’t be changed
•
A tag may be combined with a barcode.
•
RFID has a range of 1000 ft
•
Cost of tags ranges from $0.10 for passive tags to $100 for active tags used in
sensitive
applications
•
Uses of RFID
o Inventory tracking.  Manufacturers can tag products in their warehouses.  They
will be
able to identify the quantity and location of each item in the warehouse.
o Retail electronic article surveillance.  Retailers will tag each product in
their stores.  
They will install sensors at the exit.  The tags are removed at the point of
sale.  If an
individual attempts to leave the store with a tagged item, the sensor at the
exit will
detect the tag and sound an alarm.
o Access control.  Tags can be placed inside ID badges and vehicles.  A sensor
connected to a door lock or gate can provide access when detecting an authorized ID
badge or vehicle.
o Passports.  Tags are installed in US passports.  The tag contains the same
information
that is inside the passport (name, date of birth, passport number, etc.).  When
scanning the tag, the operator can obtain the same information contained in the
RFID Tag (used in clothing to prevent shoplifting)
 
 
 
RFID sensor (used to provide access to vehicles)
 
RFID Antenna
== Zigbee
Zigbee—Zigbee is one of two wireless protocols (Z-Wave being the other) focused
on home automation and other Internet of Things (IoT) devices. It is a personal
area network (PAN) protocol. It uses 128-bit AES encryption. It is designed for
low power, low speed, and low cost. It operates at 2.4 GHz with 250 kbps
throughput and 915 MHz with 40 kbps throughput in North America. Transmission
range is 10 meters. IT supports up to 65,000 nodes. It is the IEEE 802.15.4
standard.

Zigbee

In a nutshell, Zigbee is a PAN or wireless ad-hoc network. It is simpler than
Wi-Fi or Bluetooth. Zigbee is a low power, short range solution that uses low
bandwidth transmitting in the 5 GHz or 900 MHz bands with 20 meter indoor range.
It is ideal for home automation and medical applications because it creates a
mesh network. Zigbee is incompatible with Z-Wave.

Zigbee
 
•
Zigbee protocol allows communication between devices requiring low power
consumption
and low transfer rates
•
Designed for home entertainment and home automation systems, alarms, medical
systems,
and industrial control systems
•
Provides speeds of 20 kbits/s to 250 kbits/s
•
Provides a range of up to 20 meters
•
Zigbee devices create a mesh network so that they can increase their range by
passing the
signal through a chain of devices
•
Zigbee communications can be encrypted
•
Zigbee was developed in 2006 and is gaining popularity
== Z-Wave
Z-Wave—Z-Wave is one of two wireless protocols (Zigbee being the other) focused
on home automation and other Internet of Things (IoT) devices. It is a personal
area network (PAN) protocol. It uses 128-bit AES encryption. It is designed for
low power, low speed, and low cost. It operates at 908 MHz with 40 kbps and 9.6
kbps throughput in North America. Transmission range is 30 meters. IT supports
up to 232 nodes.

Z-Wave

Z-Wave is a competing home automation technology. Z-Wave uses the 900 MHz band.
It shares the low power and low data rate properties of Zigbee but has a bit
more range.

Z-Wave
 
•
Z-wave is like Zigbee
•
It is a mesh network that is used mainly in home automation
•
Managed by the Z-Wave Alliance
•
Z-Wave devices have a range of 24 meters
•
The Z-Wave system requires a central controller, which wirelessly communicates
with the
A Z-Wave controller can support up to 65,000 devices
== 3G
3G—3G refers to the third generation of cellular phone service. It was
introduced in 1998. Mobile broadband and the ability to use the Internet over
cellular was first introduced with 3G.

3G

3G is the third generation of mobile wireless technology. Compared with 2G, its
main benefits are higher speed (20 Mbps), better A/V capabilities, and global
roaming. Along with its voice and data capabilities, Internet browsing was made
possible on cellular devices.

3G
3G (Third Generation) was a cellular network
launched in 2002
3G is an analog network
 
== 4G
4G—4G, introduced in 2008 was a significant throughput improvement over 3G.

4G

4G offers even faster connections, taking the buffering and jitter out of
streaming media.

4G
4G (Fourth Generation) is the current cellular
network in use
 
4G networks support IPv6 and MIMO antennas
Uses a frequency of between 700 MHz and 3
GHz
A 4G antenna can cover an area of up to 3
miles
 
== 5G
5G—5G is the next generation of cellular technology. The infrastructure for 5G
is still being deployed. It is expected to bring much greater speeds and
improved features.

5G

5G is where the fun starts! While not available at the time of this writing, 5G
should be spreading by the time you take the test. 5G speeds will optimally be
in the 500MBps range. This increase may cause users to abandon their wired
broadband connection in favor of 5G. Home routers offering this speed will be
available. Before you ditch your cable, consider that 5G service will be
costly.

5G (Fifth Generation) is the cellular network
under development
 
Specifications for the network will be complete
in 2020
The network is expected to support speeds of
up to 10 Gbps
Will use high frequencies of up to 39 GHz
5G antennas are much smaller, but have a much
shorter range (only about one city block)
5G antennas will be installed in a closer
== LTE
LTE—Long Term Evolution is an enhancement to 4G, providing higher speeds and
some improvements to features like voice and streaming.

LTE

LTE stands for Long Term Evolution as it pertains to mobile data. While
switching from 3G to 4G is a noticeable improvement, adding LTE to 4G provides
data rates that are roughly ten times that of 3G.

LTE is Long Term Evolution
 
It is an upgrade to 3G, and almost reaches the
standards of 4G
Supports speeds of up to 400 Mbits/s
LTE is an IP-based network
