---
title: 3.9-Given-a-scenario,-install-and-configure-common-devices
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 11-01-04
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 3.9-Given-a-scenario,-install-and-configure-common-devices
= 3.9 Given a scenario, install and configure common devices.

Other Common Devices (scenario)

Common devices such as desktops and laptops are essential to any business or
home user. In any given scenario, you must know how to install and configure
desktops and laptops.


== Desktop Desktop

Desktop computers fall into two categories: thin clients and thick clients.
Installation and configuration will vary for each.


Desktop

One generally pictures a standard PC when thinking about desktops, but there are
other virtual configurations that appear the same. These other configurations
use cloud-based resources in order to create a Virtual Desktop Interface (VDI)
on the client’s computer which will be explained below.


=== Thin client Thin Client

Thin clients rely on servers to store applications and do some of the processing
for them. So, they do not need as much processing power and memory as a thick
  client.

Basic Applications—The only applications run locally on thin clients are the
basic applications needed to access the servers and remote applications they
use.

Meets minimum requirements for selected OS—Operating systems typically provide
specifications to meet both minimum and recommended requirements. Since thin
clients rely on servers to store applications and do some of the processing for
them, they need to only meet the minimum requirements for the operating system.

Network connectivity—Since thin clients rely on communications with servers,
they need high-speed network connectivity.

Thin Client

Thin client installation and configuration is a simple process, since thin
clients do not run applications locally. They connect to servers that store and
run applications. They often do not store data locally, using servers for
storage as well. There is usually a minimal operating system pre-installed and a
network interface card or WiFi to connect to the network.

Input/output devices such as the keyboard, mouse, and monitor may need to be
configured. For example, you may configure language and keyboard layout
settings. Network parameters may also need to be configured. DHCP may handle the
network connection, but you may need to configure the initial server connection.

Thin client

The thin client is a PC that is heavily reliant on cloud resources. This system
will have minimal computational power. The thin client will only meet the
minimal requirements for the operating system and may only support a browser and
a broadband network connection in order to communicate with the cloud based VM.
The Cloud VM handles most, if not all, of the processing for applications.

This is an attractive low-cost model. Portable devices such as tablets and
smartphones can take advantage of this virtualization.

Thin Client • Connect power, network, peripherals • Install required software •
Configure settings to connect thin client to virtualization server; possibly a
Remote Desktop

=== Thick client Standard Thick Client

A standard thick client is what most people think of (and use) as a PC. It
stores and runs the operating system and applications locally.

Desktop applications—Thick clients store and run applications locally, so they
need to meet all of the applications’ requirements. This includes storage space
for the applications’ files, processing power to run the applications, and
  working memory space.

Meets recommended requirements for selected OS—Operating systems typically
provide specifications to meet both minimum and recommended requirements. Thick
clients do all processing locally, so they should exceed the minimum
requirements for the operating system. They should have the processing power,
memory, and other requirements to meet or exceed the recommended requirements.

Thick Client

A thick client is a standard computer that** runs applications and stores data
locally**. Thus, the operating system, applications, and peripherals need to be
installed and configured. Network settings may be set by DHCP or need to be
configured manually.

Thick client

A regular desktop computer can be used as a thick client. Thick refers to the
computer’s configuration. These units meet or exceed the OS and application
requirements. A thick client can use the cloud based VDI or it can be used as a
standalone PC.

Thick Client • Connect power, network, peripherals • Add security tether and
asset tag • Give computer a name based on user preference or corporate policy •
Join Active Directory domain, if applicable • Set up user account o Set up local
account on computer o Or set up active directory account and have user log in to
computer • Configure user preferences o Mouse, keyboard, monitor o Desktop •
Install required software o Includes antivirus, office productivity, and other
software o Can push software to computer through server if computer is on a
corporate network onfigure network settings • Check for software updates •
Install drivers for necessary peripherals === Account setup/settings Account
Setup/Settings

Account setup on a thin client is minimal. User accounts will typically be set
up by an administrator on a directory server. The thin client can log in to an
account previously configured on the network. Users do not typically log in to
the thin client itself.

The thick client will have a local login, since it runs applications locally and
stores data that needs to be protected. It should have a local administrator
account, as well as a user account.

Account setup/settings

For clients to access virtual resources, they must have an account on the cloud
hypervisor/VM. If the user requires a configuration that stays the same with
each login, a persistent VDI is used. This allows the user to create and save
their own custom configuration which is presented during each login. Conversely,
a non-persistent VDI does not save any changes and delivers a standard
configuration with each login.

Setup/Settings • Is the account a local account or an Active Directory account?
o Local account is configured on computer  On a new computer, you will be
prompted to create an account  On a computer already in use, go to user
profiles and create a new account  Will the account require admin access?  At
least one local account must have admin access.   Choose a username and
temporary password.  The user should be required to change the password.  o
Active Directory account is configured on server  Log in to Active Directory 
Create an account in the correct user group  Add necessary policies  Generate
the temporary password.  The user should be required to change the password the
first time he/she logs in.   In a corporate environment, create accounts for
other services (e-mail, HR, etc.).  This may be performed manually or
automatically depending on the

== Laptop/common mobile devices Laptop

Laptops share some of the items that need to be installed and configured with
desktops, but they have additional items such as touchpads and touchscreens not
typically found on desktops.

Laptop/common mobile devices


=== Touchpad configuration Touchpad Configuration

Touchpads usually work well with the default configuration but can be tuned to
user preferences for sensitivity, multi-finger gestures, tapping, and clicking.

 Touchpad configuration

How do we navigate through our operating systems without using a mouse? For 99%
of situations, the solution is the touch pad. We will look at a well-worn laptop
touchpad to illustrate how the device is used. Most of the action takes place at
the large top section of the touchpad. Here, your fingertip uses capacitance to
change the electrical properties of the touchpad, allowing you to navigate
around your desktop using the touchpad surface.

Notice how centered the wear pattern which indicates a well configured pad. Left
and right clicks are physical actions, requiring you to push down on the
buttons. This can be considered a form of biometric input because the electrical
properties of your fingertip create the connection point that influences the
motion. Biometrics are most often found in security enforcement situations where
an individual’s biological properties are used to identify them in a more
definitive way than with a token or passphrase.

Laptop/Mobile Device Settings Touchpad Each model of touchpad may have different
settings, including • Sensitivity • Function of using multiple fingers at a time
(for example using two fingers at a time allows you to zoom in/out)
 
=== Touchscreen configuration Touchscreen Configuration

The touchscreen may need to be calibrated to ensure that it properly recognizes
the point being touched on the screen. This only needs to be done if accurately
selecting objects on the screen is a problem.

Touchscreen configuration

A touchscreen is a device that takes physical input on your display, such as
finger or stylus movement, and converts it digitally. This device makes it
possible to draw directly into your program. Touchsreens are a great accessory
for a graphic artist, giving them the ability to create and digitally modify
  their creations.

Touchscreen

Touchscreen Touchscreen may be enabled or disabled depending on the user
preference The touchscreen settings can include • Visual feedback when touching
the screen
 


=== Application installations/configurations Application
Installations/Configurations

Laptops may not be as powerful as desktops, so you need to be sure that the
laptop will support the requirements of an application before you install it.
Check CPU, RAM, and storage requirements.

Application installations/configurations

First, insure your hardware connectivity requirements have been met. Second,
review the software installation requirements. Third, download and install the
application to your PC. The application is usually designed to be installed
correctly on mobile or desktop devices when the correct version is chosen.

Application Installation There are thousands of applications and millions of
possible settings
 


=== Synchronization settings Synchronization Settings

Depending on the operating system, you can synchronize certain settings between
devices. This gives you the same look and feel as you move from one device to
another. You can also synchronize data, including files, photos, and music. The
methods to do so vary for different operating systems and applications.

Synchronization methods

There are two main ways to sync data.

1) Synchronize to the Cloud

Synchronizing to the Cloud syncs your selected data to the Cloud. An internet
connection is required in order to accomplish this. Examples of free, limited,
and subscription-based cloud services include iTunes, iCloud, Google Drive,
Dropbox, and OneDrive. If you are using a proprietary synchronization method, be
aware that it may only sync the proprietary or specially configured data. For
example, a Dropbox sync requires that the data to be synced to be uploaded first
to the online Dropbox folder, after which it will be synced. In the case of iOS
products, only some of the content can be synced such as purchased content.

2) Synchronize to the Desktop

Synchronizing to the Desktop is quite common and in many cases is accomplished
through a physical connection between the mobile device and the desktop.
However, sync can be configured across all configured devices. In the image
below, we use Windows Media player to sync images between the desktop and an
Android device.

Android Sync with Desktop

Synchronization Laptop/desktop can sync with cloud and/or phone May require you
to install an application, create an account/subscription with cloud service,
and then log in on the desktop
 


=== Account setup/settings Account Setup/Settings

Laptops require strong account settings, since they are used in public spaces
and more likely to be lost or stolen. A user account with minimal access should
be set up as the default user account to minimize the risk if a malicious actor
gets access to the laptop.

Account setup/settings

A Windows workstation can create two account types for new users: Standard and
Administrator. When creating new users, it is best to make them Standard. New
users can be added to Groups if they need additional privileges. A new user is
created from the control panel by clicking the User Accounts applet. This opens
an Account wizard which initially asks for the user’s email address and
password. If you do not have this info, this page can be skipped and you can
create an account with just a username and password that you set. The password
can and should be changed when the user first accesses the machine. Once the
user is set up on their machine, they have the option to create a Single sign-on
Microsoft account which gives them Cloud access to online storage and more.
Other vendors offer similar services.


=== Wireless settings Wireless Settings

Laptops are mobile devices, so they often connect to different networks. To be
able to join different networks, the wireless configuration should use DHCP
rather than a manual IP configuration. This allows it to acquire its IP address
and other settings from whatever access point it connects to.

Wireless settings

In order to configure a wireless connection to a router, you will need the
Service Set Identifier (SSID) of the wireless router and the passphrase. You
will also need to know the router’s encryption and security type along with the
channel number in case you run into connection issues. Wireless security can be
improved by stopping the router from broadcasting its SSID, filtering the MAC
addresses allowed to connect to it, and reducing the radio power. Radio power is
often overlooked but today’s router ranges far exceed what you would need to
cover a SOHO or even a business with an unobstructed floor plan.

Wireless Settings Connect to correct SSID Enter correct password,
username/password, or certificate If the network is hidden, enter SSID
 
Encryption Set up encryption Common encryption is BitLocker


