---
title: 5.4-Given-a-scenario,-troubleshoot-video,-projector,-and-display-issues
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 11-01-04
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 5.4-Given-a-scenario,-troubleshoot-video,-projector,-and-display-issues
= 5.4 Given a scenario, troubleshoot video, projector, and display issues.

== Common symptoms

Video, Projector, and Display (scenario)

Consider this situation:

A call comes in to the help desk, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) has started
a meeting with the “C” level officers (including the Chief Executive Officer,
CEO) in your company and the projector won’t power on. This has happened before
and will happen again. What’s the next step?

Below are some of the more common symptoms to look for. Watch out, those
projector bulbs can be hot!



Common Symptoms

=== VGA mode VGA mode— This mode is similar to Safe Mode but for display issues.
The PC boots with the minimum video drivers in use, which is helpful for
troubleshooting.

VGA mode

Accessed in the Advanced Boot Options by pressing the F8 key at startup, Windows
will offer VGA mode as a boot option. Newer versions of Windows (8.1-10) refer
to VGA mode as low resolution video. In either case, the display mode we are
referring to is the most basic video resolution and color setting available. The
purpose of VGA mode is to successfully access the system using the standard VGA
driver as opposed to the manufacturer’s driver. Using the standard driver
enables you to see your system while reducing the video system’s impact on
system operation. In this mode, your on-screen objects may appear larger or
geometrically distorted. Shown here is the Windows 8.1 access method. Here you
would press F3 to access low resolution video. You will now have the ability to
troubleshoot the system.

Startup settings in Windows 8.1

roubleshoot Display/Projector VGA Mode Check that the video cable is connected
to the projector correctly.
 
Check that the projector/display is set to the correct input.
 
Check that the video cable is connected to the video source correctly.
 
Check that the video source is powered on, and that it is set to output to an
external display.
 
Replace the cable if necessary.
 
Some video cables only work in one direction.  Make sure that the cable is
connected in the correct direction.
 
=== No image on screen No image on screen— This can happen if there is a cabling
issue, or a connection is not seated properly.

No image on screen

There are a variety of possible causes for this condition. Troubleshoot this
condition as you normally would any hardware issue. Start with the obvious. Is
the computer operational? Are the fans and lights all running? Obviously there
will be no image on the screen so you can’t use this to check. However, do check
the monitor (if it applies) for Power indicator lights and check the cable
connections carefully. If everything is in order, try a different monitor on the
system. If these steps fail, grab your user manual as there may be a reset
sequence.

No Image Check that the video cable is connected to the projector correctly.
 
Check that the projector/display is set to the correct input.
 
Check that the video cable is connected to the video source correctly.
 
Check that the video source is powered on, and that it is set to output to an
external display.  Some cables only work in one direction.  Make sure that the
cable is connected in the correct direction.
 

=== Overheat shutdown Overheat shutdown— A shutdown of this sort could be due to
problems with the video card or blocked airways for ventilation.

Overheat shutdown

Any heat related issues are most likely to be associated with the graphics
subsystem. Often, the demands of high quality video, rapid frame rates, and
millions of colors combine on the video chipset, which may even be part of the
processor. The byproduct of all this is heat. Although heat exchangers, fins,
and fans are capable of dissipating the heat, their effectiveness can be reduced
with dust, its only natural enemy. For example, a slight layer of dust in the
fin housing or under the fan blades can be sufficient to impede the cooling
capacity of the cooling unit. Variations in temperature may cause the system to
shut down protectively. Dust is easy enough to clean and dust buildup is
important enough to check regularly.

Here are some of the terms related to video problems that you are going to need
to be familiar with.


Overheat Shutdown Projector is overheating.
 
Check that the fans and air vents on the projector/display are not obstructed
and clean them if necessary.
 
Move the projector/display to an area with adequate ventilation.
 
If the fans are not functioning, they must be replaced.
 
=== Dead pixels Dead pixels— This issue is typically related to the hardware, or
the monitor itself. Replacement of the display is usually necessary to correct
it.

Dead pixels

A dead pixel is a picture element on an LCD panel that remains unlit despite the
fact it should be displaying a color or light of some type. Dead pixels usually
remain black.

Dead Pixel The display is damaged and should be replaced.
 
The projector is damaged and should be replaced.  The light processing chip
(DLP) may be replaced.
 

=== Artifacts Artifacts— These could be caused by problems with the adapter or
video drivers.

Artifacts

Although artifacts usually appear as a small segment of corrupted screen output,
we’ll show the most extreme illustration of artifacts that we can find. Shown
below is a screen full of artifacts.

“Artifacts” – Corrupted screen output

In the 1970’s, this condition would be remedied by striking the display which,
as strange as it sounds, would work for short periods by reconnecting broken
tube filaments. This archaic technique will not work with solid state
components. Repairs can be attempted using manufacturer designed software as
sometimes a driver patch can help which would save money and man hours.

Artifact Determine if the artifact is caused by the display or by the video
source.
 
Replace the display and video cable first.
 
If the artifact remains, then the issue is with the video source.  • Reboot the
video source • Adjust the settings on the video source • Replace the graphics
card/system board If the artifact disappears, then the issue is with the
display.   • Perform a factory reset on the display • Replace the display.
 

=== Incorrect color patterns Incorrect color patterns— Damaged cables or a
damaged connection port on the PC may be responsible for this malfunction.

Color patterns incorrect

This condition will be present in new “out-of-the-box” monitors. If the colors
are distorted or obviously wrong, start by power cycling the monitor. If that
fails, consult the documentation for the calibration routine or use the Windows
built-in calibration wizard.

Determine if the pattern is caused by the display or by the video source.
 
Replace the display and video cable first.
 
If the color pattern remains, then the issue is with the video source.  • Reboot
the video source • Adjust the settings on the video source • Replace the
graphics card/system board
 
If the color pattern disappears, then the issue is with the display.   • Perform
a factory reset on the display • Replace the display.
 
=== Dim image Dim image— This irregularity often has something to do with
brightness settings on the display or with adapter issues.

Dim image

More often than not, a dim image is the result of the power saving settings on a
laptop or the ambient light settings on a flat panel TV. This condition is
remedied using the monitor’s controls to adjust the brightness.

Increase the brightness of the display.  If you’re unable to increase the
brightness, the backlight may have burned out and should be replaced.
 
=== Flickering image Flickering image— This happens when there are damaged
cables or a damaged connection port on the PC.

Flickering image

A flickering image is the result of your monitor running a refresh rate of below
60Hz. At or above 60Hz, the human eye cannot detect changes in an image. If you
display progressive groups of images at 60 frames per second, those images would
appear to simply flow along. If you take those same images and display them at
50 images per second, they will appear to stutter as each new image is shown.

Flickering Image Determine if the issue is caused by the display or by the video
source.
 
Replace the display and video cable first.
 
If the flickering remains, then the issue is with the video source.  • Reboot
the video source • Adjust the settings on the video source • Replace the
graphics card/system board
 
If the flickering disappears, then the issue is with the display.   • Perform a
factory reset on the display • Check the refresh rate on the display • Replace
the display.

=== Distorted image Distorted image— The system settings on your OS may be
responsible for a distorted image. The refresh rate or resolution may be at
fault.

Distorted image and geometry

Images on your monitor are displayed using a strict X-Y axis description, X
pixels high by Y pixels wide. 1024 by 768 is reproducible by most monitors. If a
perfect circle is shown on the monitor, variations to either of the x-y values
will result in an imperfect circle, possibly an egg shape. Shown below is when a
perfect grid of squares is displayed at the wrong geometry.

Determine if the distorted image is caused by the display or by the video
source.
 
Replace the display and video cable first.
 
If the distorted image remains, then the issue is with the video source.  •
Reboot the video source • Adjust the settings on the video source • Replace the
graphics card/system board
 
If the distorted image disappears, then the issue is with the display.   •
Perform a factory reset on the display • Check the refresh rate on the display

=== Distorted geometry Distorted geometry— This variance could be caused by
display settings, video card issues, or magnetic interference.

Distorted geometry

This can be resolved by setting your monitor to a standard resolution. A very
common example of this condition occurs when you display old television shows on
current flat panel wide screen monitors. The old content will appear stretched,
short, and fat.

Typically found on projectors, when the projector is not 100% parallel to the
screen.  Adjust the projector “keystone”.

=== Burn-in Burn-in— This is caused when images stick on the screen and become
permanent parts of the display. It could be caused by stuck pixels.


Burn-in

Finally, just about the worst thing that can happen to a monitor with years of
useful life remaining is a condition called burn-in. Burn-in happens when a
single motionless high contrast image is displayed for a long period of time,
such as over a day. The result is that the image is “burned-in” or permanently
present on the display. The image may be faint but it is constantly being shown.

A burn-in occurs when a fixed image is displayed on the screen for a long period
of time.
 
The burn-in will disappear after some time.  Try displaying different moving
images on the screen.  There are apps that can clear the burn- in.
 
If the damage is permanent, then the screen must be replaced.
 
=== Oversized images and icons

    Oversized images and icons— If the resolution of the monitor does not match
    the system settings, this can be the result.  Oversized Images/Icons Adjust
    screen resolution on the video source.  Adjust the zoom on the video source
    and on 


=== Multiple failed jobs in logs

