---
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2024-09-18, 05-56-27
date_modified: 2024-09-18, 05-56-46
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---

# Introduciton

What are the causes behind

is a growing problem in the U.S. today caused primarily by

Social media addiction: the way social media is designed the way people
use social media genetics, personality, environment

Social media platforms such as Facebook, Snapchat, and Instagram produce
the same neural circuitry caused by gambling and recreational drugs. A
constant stream of retweets, likes, and shares affects the brain's
reward area and triggers the same kind of chemical reaction as other
drugs, such as cocaine. (Werner Geyser, 2022)

How will this new age designer drug continue to impact the world?

Social media platforms have evolve from a place to kill time to place a
that wants all your time. These platforms continue to evolve to capture
a young generation, while almost trying to demand all your time.

These social media platforms continue grow and

Social media addiction is a growing problem around the world caused
primarily by the dopamine release, FOMO, and negative emotions.

# Dopamine Release

Social media platforms are designed for Dopamine release.

When a person engages in a pleasurable activity, the brain releases a
hormone called dopamine. Dopamine is responsible for feelings of
pleasure.()

This dopamine release is similar to the use of recreational drugs and
gambling.

An increase in dopamine levels may cur after social media notifications.
These triggering events can be comments, retweets, or other positive
events.

The reliance on these positive events caused by the interaction with the
social media platforms may cause an addiction.

# FOMO

FOMO is the fear of missing out. Social media is great at exacerbate
that feeling. By constantly showing what everybody doing. This can lead
to feeling anxiety and insecure. Which can lead to more social media
usage to feeling apart of the loop.

# Negative Emotions

After getting hooked with dopamine releases, then getting stuck in a
loop because of FOMO. People start to cope with negative emotions using
social media. Social media provides a temporary escape from these
negative emotions.

# Conclusion

Factors that contribute to social media addiction are the dopamine
releases, FOMO, and negative emotions. The impact of social media
platforms creating a product which sole goal to cause dopamine releases
to addicted a generation. Can not be understated. The hooked being the
addictive design, the FOMO being the vicious cycle that keeps people
coming back. To the ability to use social media as coping mechichan for
negative emotions.

# References

Werner Geyser. (2022). Retrieved from
<https://influencermarketinghub.com/social-media-addiction-stats/> Suzy
Davenport. (2022). Retrieved from
<https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/social-media-addiction>
