= 1.3 Given a scenario, use appropriate laptop features.

Laptop Features (scenario)

There are many features on a laptop that are not found on desktop computers. You
must know how to use appropriate features of the laptop in a given scenario.
This section covers those, as well as some features shared with desktops.

== Special function keys
Special Function Keys

There are several special keys related to a laptop. For example, there is one to
quickly turn your wireless adapter on or off and one to adjust screen
brightness. Other special functions that you should be aware of for this exam
include: dual displays, cellular (on/off), volume settings, Bluetooth (on/off),
keyboard backlight, touchpad (on/off), screen orientation, media options (fast
forward/rewind), GPS (on/off), and Airplane mode.

Special function key

On a laptop or notebook, it is fairly common to see the top row of keys
configured as dual purpose utility keys, allowing the user to perform a variety
of actions without cluttering the workspace with rows of infrequently used keys.
The goal here is to dedicate the top row (mainly) of keys and give them
unrelated but specific functionality. The Function key (Fn) is used to access
these various functions and is shown below.

Function key highlighted

The Function key combination makes it harder to perform unintended actions.

Bonus question for everyone, which primary keyboard feature is activated by the
Fn key? As seen in the keyboard shown, multilingual capabilities are active when
the Fn key is pressed.

For the most actions, manufacturers assign the functions using their own layout.
However, all functions work through the following: press and hold the Fn key and
the desired option key.


Special Function Keys 
The special function keys are located at the top of the keyboard and are
labelled F1 to F12.  Each 
Function key is labelled with a logo for what it does (differs from laptop to
laptop).  The most 
common functions are listed in the table below, but your laptop may have other
functions. 
 
To activate a special function key 
• 
Hold down the “fn” key while pressing the key 
• 
To activate the ley without having to press “fn”, you must toggle a setting in
the BIOS.  The setting is called "Action Keys Mode"



=== Dual display
Dual Displays

Most of today’s laptops have an external display connector, such as an HDMI
connector. The dual display function key is used to select which display
(laptop/external/both) to send the image to.

Dual displays

The first function we will look at is the Fn+f4 command. This command will
extend the laptop monitor to a second connected monitor. This is useful for
presentations require an overhead projector or separate large monitor. Here is
the Windows configuration screen showing two monitors.

Windows configuration screen showing two monitors.

Allow you to project laptop screen to external 
display (connected via cable or wireless – 
Chromecast, Surface, etc.) 
 
The Dual Displays menu appears.  Pressing the 
button again toggles through the different 
menu options. 
 
 
 
The options are: 
• 
PC Screen Only: display only on PC 
Screen 
• 
Duplicate: display identical content on 
second screen 
• 
Extend: display different content on 
second screen, equivalent to having a 
second monitor 
• 
Second screen only: display content on 
second screen, turns the laptop screen 
Choose the “Connect to a wireless display” link 

Dual displays
• Toggle Fn keys
•• Secondary functions
•• Toggle between LCD / external monitor / both
• LCD switch
•• The “refrigerator door” effect
•• Physical switch on older systems
•• Internal magnetic switch on newer portable systems
•• Set functionality in the BIOS or utility

=== Wireless (on/off)
Wireless

The wireless function key toggles on/off the WiFi connection.

Wireless (on/off)

The wireless key is not universally part of the Fn key arrangement. In most
cases, your device will have a Wi-fi symbol, switch, or button that will be off
when Wi-fi is off, turn amber when Wi-fi is on, and turn blue when a connection
is established.

Toggle Wi-Fi on or off 
 
Wireless control
• Control your wireless signal
•• Airplane mode, secure areas
•• Look for a status light
• Physical switch
• Function key
• May include 802.11, Bluetooth, and cellular
•• Look for the symbol or status light

=== Cellular (on/off)
Cellular

The cellular function key toggles on/off the cellular connection.

Cellular (on/off)

If your laptop has cellular capability, it will have a control button or area to
enable/disable cell service. It is good practice to switch to 802.11 series
connections when they are available to save on cellular data.

Cellular 
Turn cellular data on or off (for laptops with 
cellular capabilities) 
 
=== Volume settings
Volume Settings

Most laptops have two function keys for volume, one for volume down and one for
volume up. Some have a separate mute function key.

Volume settings

The volume up/down buttons will be available either as a Fn related action or as
a separate control. Some models use touch sensitive surfaces to control volume
level.

Volume 
Adjust volume up or down (2 buttons) 
 

Volume settings
• Another function key
•• May be a standalone key
•• Often includes a mute option
• Physical dial or button
•• May see visual feedback



=== Screen brightness
Screen Brightness

Most laptops have two function keys for brightness, one for dimmer and one
brighter.

Screen brightness

Screen brightness is usually controlled with a Fn related action.

Screen brightness 
Turn screen brightness up or down (2 buttons) 
 

Screen brightness
• Control the backlight
•• Secondary function keys
• More light, more power
•• Conserve your battery


=== Bluetooth (on/off)
Bluetooth

The Bluetooth function key toggles on/off the Bluetooth connection.

Bluetooth (on/off)

Bluetooth is usually controlled by a Fn command or a separate button. Bluetooth
uses a lot of power so if you are on battery and are not using Bluetooth, it’s
best to switch it off.


Bluetooth 
Toggle Bluetooth on or off 
 



=== Keyboard backlight
Keyboard Backlight

Some keyboards include a backlight. The keyboard backlight function key toggles
it on/off.

Keyboard backlight

Some keyboards are backlit for use in low ambient light situations. While this
is very helpful, one should assess the power use vs benefit when on battery.

Keyboard Backlight 
Toggle keyboard backlight on or off (for laptops 

Keyboard backlight
• An option on many laptops
•• See in the dark
• Secondary function control
•• Intensity
•• Duration
•• Disable


=== Touchpad (on/off)
Touchpad

The touchpad function key toggles the touchpad on/off.

Touch pad (on/off)

Many individuals have trouble using a laptop keyboard and touchpad at the same
time as their palms, or other parts of the hand, make contact with the touchpad.
This will cause the cursor to jump to a different location. You can toggle the
touchpad on and off to rectify this situation.

Touchpad 
Toggle touchpad on or off (good for when 
you’re using a mouse) 
 

Touch pad
• Enable and disable
•• Avoid inadvertent mouse clicks and movements

=== Screen orientation
Screen Orientation

Many laptops have the option of viewing the screen in landscape or portrait
mode. The screen orientation key selects the orientation of the screen.

Screen orientation

Most laptop screens today are in landscape mode where the display is wider than
it is tall. This is highly suited for multimedia entertainment which uses 16
pixels horizontal for every 9 pixels vertical.

Screen Orientation 
Change screen orientation from landscape to 
portrait 
 
A tablet can automatically detect the correct 
rotation (you may want to fix the orientation) 
 
Screen orientation
• Rotate the screen
•• Useful on rotating tablet / laptops
•• Landscape to portrait
• Fn key or hotkey
•• Different across manufacturers


=== Media options (fast forward/rewind)
Media options

Media function keys are used to control audio and video playback. They vary from
one laptop to the next, but typically include play/pause, fast forward, and
rewind keys.

Media options (fast forward/rewind)

Multi function keys.

As mentioned above, laptops are being used as multimedia platforms. Here f9 is
play pause, f10 is stop, f11 is fast rewind, and f12 fast forward.

Media Options 
Fast Forward, Rewind, Pause, etc. 
 
These features are good for when you’re 
watching a movie on a DVD or Blu-Ray 
 
They may also work with third-party 
applications, such as VLC Media Player 


Media options
• Control audio and video from your keyboard
•• No mouse clicking
• Play, stop, rewind, fast forward
•• Mute, volume


=== GPS (on/off)
GPS

The GPS function key toggles the GPS location service on/off.

GPS (on/off)

GPS mode should have its own switch. GPS functions help when you are trying to
find a specific location, but keep in mind that what you are tracking can track
you. We recommend turning GPS off unless in use.

Toggle GPS on or off (for laptops equipped with 
GPS) 
 
GPS
• Listen for GPS signals
• May also be associated with airplane mode or other wireless settings 


=== Airplane mode
Airplane Mode

The Airplane mode function key toggles WiFi, Bluetooth, and cellular on/off,
simultaneously.


Airplane mode

This is another setting that should have its own switch or even a menu setting.
Airplane mode disables all communication to and from the device when activated.

Airplane Mode 
Toggle airplane mode on or off 
 
Airplane mode will deactivate Wi-Fi, GPS, 
Cellular, and Bluetooth 
 
If you’re on an airplane with Wi-Fi, you can still 
connect to the airplane’s Wi-Fi when on airplane 
mode 
 
 
Help 
Launch Windows help, or possibly launch the 
help menu inside an application that you’re 
running 
 



== Docking station
Docking Station

This is a device to which you can connect a laptop. It will handle the external
functions needed, like displays, power, and USB ports. It is normally seen in a
business environment setup. All of your connections are plugged into the docking
station. To access it, slide the laptop down on the docking connectors. It
effectively turns your laptop into a desktop with external display, external
keyboard, external mouse, Ethernet LAN, USB devices, and power supply all
connected by just sliding your laptop into the docking station. It may also add
functionality with adapter cards.

Docking station

A docking station is an extremely convenient way to make all necessary
connections through a single device. Generally speaking, the docking station has
a keyboard, mouse, monitor, and network connection. The laptop is connected to
the station through a proprietary connection.

Docking Station vs Port Replicator 
• 
A user with a laptop may take it home or on the road.  When the user gets back
to the office, 
they connect their laptop to the docking station, and can use all of their
peripherals. 
• 
A docking station allows a user to connect their laptop to many devices at the same time 
• 
It is ideal for an office worker who wants to connect external monitors,
ethernet, and USB 
devices such as mice, keyboards and printers, but wants to avoid the hassle of
connecting 
each device manually 
• 
Only “business-grade” laptops have docking ports 
• 
The bottom of the laptop contains a docking port 
• 
The laptop sits on top of the docking station 
• 
The docking station may have  
o A button to power the laptop on or off 
o A button to eject the laptop from the dock 
o A button to lock/unlock the laptop in the dock 
• 
A docking station is typically proprietary to the manufacturer, although
aftermarket docking 
stations exist.  A docking station may work with multiple models of laptops made
by the same 
manufacturer 
• 
Older docking stations can have optional slots to add memory, hard disk drives,
and PCI 
cards, which the laptop can take advantage of when it is connected.  These are
not popular. 
• 
Disadvantages 
o Some of the docks’ ports contain pins that are easily damaged if the laptop
isn’t 
inserted correctly 
o Dock may take up too much space on the desk 
Older models of docking stations look like this 
 
Back of Dock 
Newer docking stations use USB-C 
• 
The user connects the USB-C cable to the laptop 
• 
All data and power are transmitted through the USB-C cable 
• 
Some docking stations require two connections to the laptop (one for USB-C and
one for 
power) 
• 
Most laptops with USB-C ports (even consumer-grade laptops) can function with
the newer 

Docking station
• Docking station
•• Use external keyboard and mouse
•• Extend existing laptop interfaces
•• Add additional functionality
•• Desktop adapter cards
•• Avoid cable issues
• Port replicator
•• Similar to a docking station
•• Does not have an expansion card option


== Port replicator
Port Replicator

A port replicator is similar to a docking station, but more limited. It is
typically smaller and does not have a power supply or slots for adapter cards.
It just provides a way to connect an external display, keyboard, and mouse with
one connection.

What’s the difference between a port replicator and a docking station? 
• 
Technically a port replicator includes the same ports that are on the laptop 
• 
A docking station includes additional ports that aren’t found on the laptop (for
example a 
serial port) 
• 
A docking station may have additional hardware support 

== Physical laptop lock and cable lock
Locks

To protect your laptop from theft, you can use a physical laptop lock and cable
lock. One end of the cable lock loops around a fixed object such as part of a
desk that the loop cannot be slipped off of. The other end plugs into a security
slot in the laptop and locks with a combination or key.

Many other physical laptop locks may be used for laptops that do not have a
security slot. These typically hook around the laptop where the keyboard meets
the display and are tied to a fixed object with a cable lock, as previously
described.

Physical laptop lock and cable lock

All laptops are fitted with a small reinforced attachment point that can be used
to help prevent theft. Cable locks are attached to these attachment points.
These cable locks are sometimes referred to as Kensington connectors after one
of the prominent manufacturers of security cables. The opposite end of the cable
lock is mounted to something secure.

Cable lock on laptop.

Cable Lock 
• 
A cable lock allows you to lock your laptop to a desk so that it can’t be stolen

• 
Most laptops and monitors have a cable lock port.  The port on the right is a
cable lock port.  
It looks almost like a USB-C port. 
 
• 
You wrap the cable around a secure object like a desk and then insert the lock
mechanism 
into the lock port 
 
• 
It’s easy to cut the cable with a pair of bolt cutters 
• 
Good physical security is important, in combination with other security
practices 
o Encrypt your laptop data 
o Lock your screen when you are away from your desk 
o Don’t leave your laptop unattended if possible 


Physical laptop locks
• Keep your laptop from walking away
•• The bad guys are good at this
• Connect to a solid object
•• Nothing moves
• Laptops include metal-reinforced locking slots
•• Connect to the lock

== Rotating/removable screens
Special Screens

Some laptops have rotating and/or removable screens. These screen types allow
you to turn your laptop into a tablet-like device. When locked into position,
you will be able to use the laptop as if it were a tablet, including the use of
a touch screen and stylus pen.


Rotating / removable screens

When adding flexibility to a laptop, it’s hard to ignore the benefits of a
removable screen. Removing the screen cuts the weight in half without
compromising performance. A rotating screen allows a user to swivel around and
lay the screen face up, giving the look and feel of a tablet with the power of a
laptop.

Laptop with removable screen

Rotating Screens 
• 
A rotating screen allows you to convert your laptop into a tablet 
 
• 
Laptops with rotating screens are not popular 
• 
Consider the Microsoft Surface Pro Tablet 
o You can fold the screen over so that it becomes a tablet 
o The keyboard connects to the screen via a magnetic connector 
o You can detach the keyboard portion from the laptop (some models) 

Rotating / removable screens
• Combine a laptop keyboard with a tablet screen
• Presentation display
• May include a stylus for input



