= 1.5 Given a scenario, connect and configure accessories and ports of other mobile devices.

Mobile Device Accessories and Ports (scenario)

You must be familiar with the different connection types and the accessories or
devices that use them. You should be able to connect accessories to the
appropriate ports of other mobile devices and configure them to work correctly
in a given scenario.

Connection types

NFC

Let’s start with the connection types available for mobile devices and their
accessories. We have already discussed Wi-Fi and Bluetooth in detail (in prior
ExamNotes) but there is a third type that you need to be knowledgeable about.
This third type is called Near Field Communication (NFC). NFC is not a new
technology and due to its main security feature of its 10 cm transmission range,
has experienced resurgence through the proliferation of mobile devices.
Attackers have to be practically touching the target device in order to be able
to exchange data. NFC can be used for tap and pay, which exchanges payment
information with a NFC capable reader at the cash register, as well as
exchanging contact information with friends or clients simply by tapping
compatible phones together. The ultimate business card!


== Connection types
Connection Types

Connection types are either wired or wireless.


=== Wired
Wired

You should know these wired connection types before you take the CompTIA A+ Core
Series exam.

==== Micro-USB/Mini-USB/USB-C
Micro-USB/Mini-USB/USB-C— Mini-USB, micro-USB, and USB-C connect to smaller
mobile devices, such as cell phones or tablets. They can be used for data
transfer and/or charging the battery. Mini-USB and micro-USB have a top and
bottom, so they must be inserted in a specific way, while USB-C can be inserted
either way.


MicroUSB/miniUSB/USB-C

MicroUSB and miniUSB are two connection types that became standard then
eventually were phased out in favor of another. The miniUSB connector was
introduced as a digital camera and media player charger and data connector.
MiniUSB was only marginally smaller than the standard USB B connection and it
wasn’t long before a replacement, the microUSB, was designed and adopted. The
microUSB connection is more durable and mobile device friendly than the miniUSB.
The microUSB is also considerably smaller and is suitable to not only fit media
based devices but also the sleek, thin smartphones and Tablet PCs that were
flooding the market. The mass adoption of microUSB spelled doom for the miniUSB
connector. You may see the miniUSB in the field but all new devices are
considerably more likely to be microUSB as devices developed a slimmer profile.
Most recently, the USB-C connector was developed with a higher speed, a small
profile, and a reversible orientation. With USB-C, you can plug it in either way
and there’s no more guessing when you connected a device.

Micro-USB and mini-USB
• EU standardized on Micro-USB
•• Common now worldwide
• Older devices may use Mini-USB
•• Slightly larger
USB-C
• 24-pin double-sided USB connector
•• Used for both hosts and devices
• Acts as a USB 3.1 / USB 2.0 connection
•• Only the interface is different
• Includes an analog audio option
•• Headset support through a 3.5 mm jack

Micro-USB (Type B) 
 
 
 
Most common format 
 
Allows you to connect the mobile device to a 
computer (to transfer data and power) or to a 
power outlet (to transfer power) 
Mini-USB (Type B) 
 
 
 
Less common format 
 
Allows you to connect the mobile device to a 
computer (to transfer data and power) or to a 
power outlet (to transfer power) 
USB-C 
 
 
New format for connecting mobile devices 
 
Allows you to connect the mobile device to a 
computer (to transfer data and power) or to a 
power outlet (to transfer power) 
 
USB-C connector is symmetrical 
USB-C is USB 3.0  



==== Lightning
Lightning— proprietary connector for Apple devices; more durable and simpler
than USB standard.

USB-C Connector

Lightning

Apple was one of the initial developers of USB-C along with other major industry
leaders. Seeing how slowly the standard was being developed, Apple left the
group and developed their own similar but proprietary connector called
Lightning. This connector was in production before USB-C (USB 3.1) was approved.
The connector is compatible with many other standards, but you’ll need to obtain
adapters to use it.

Lightning
• Apple proprietary
•• 8-pin digital signals
•• iPhone, iPad, iPod devices
• Some advantages over Micro-USB
•• Higher power output for phones and tablets
•• Can be inserted either way
•• Simpler design, more durable

Apple devices use lightning connection, which is 
proprietary 
Allows you to connect the mobile device to a 
computer (to transfer data and power) or to a 
power outlet (to transfer power) 
 
Lightning connector is symmetrical 
 

==== Tethering

Tethering— Tethering uses your phone’s cellular network to provide service to
another device.

Tethering
• Physically connect a device to your mobile phone
•• Use the Internet/data connection
• Enable Internet access from almost anywhere
•• May require service or configuration by wireless carrier

Uses a USB cable, Bluetooth, or a Wi-Fi 
connection to connect the mobile device to a 
computer 
 
Useful for transferring data to/from the 
computer 
 
Useful for providing an internet connection to a 
computer or to other mobile devices (the 
mobile device acts as an internet 
router/modem/wireless access point) 

==== Proprietary vendor-specific ports (communication/power)
Proprietary vendor-specific ports— Apple uses a proprietary communication/power
connection, known as Lightning. This allows faster charging, and the connector
can be inserted in any way, unlike older USB connectors, which have a top and a
bottom.


Proprietary vendor specific ports (communication /power)

Each vendor introducing new technology will design proprietary connector types
for power and data. As the technology becomes popular with users, the
  manufacturers or the IEEE will agree upon and standardize a specific
  connection type that will be used in the 2nd generation of devices.

Proprietary mobile interfaces
• Early mobile technology was all about cables
•• One cable for power
•• A completely different cable for data
• Every manufacturer was different - Intentionally
• The EU changed things
•• Common external power supply for all data-enabled mobile phones sold in the
European Union

Older mobile devices (prior to 2010) may use 
proprietary connectors 
 
The connector may only provide power or may 
provide connection to a computer 
There are dozens, if not hundreds of different 
proprietary connectors from the early-to-late 
2000s 
 
May need to search online (eBay or Amazon) to find these adapters


The standard USB connector is Type-A 
 
You can purchase a cable in any of the above models that is Type B, USB-C, Lightning, etc. on one 
side, and Type A on the other. 
Connect the Type A side to a computer (to transfer data) or to a power adapter (to charge the mobile 
=== Wireless

Wireless

You should know these wireless connection types before you take the CompTIA A+
exam.

==== NFC
NFC— short-range technology; speeds of 106, 212, or 424 kbps; distance around 10
centimeters.

NFC (Near Field Communication)
• Send small amounts of data wirelessly over a limited area
•• Built into your phone
•• Payment systems, transportation, in-person information exchange
• Access token, identity “card”
•• Short range with encryption support

Near-Field Communication 
 
Uses an electromagnetic signal generated by a 
loop antenna inside the mobile device 
NFC Devices work together automatically 
 
Uses 
• 
Contactless payments/Mobile payments 
(your mobile device can act as a credit 
card or a debit card) 
• 
Key card (your mobile device can act as 
a key card in an office building or hotel) 
• 
Sharing data between mobile devices 
• 
 
Range of 4cm (maximum) 
 

==== Bluetooth
Bluetooth— Class 1 is for industrial use, with a maximum distance of 100 meters.
Class 2 is for mobile use, with a maximum distance of 10 meters. Class 3 is for
special usage, with a maximum distance of 1 meter.

Bluetooth

Earlier Bluetooth wireless connections were not as fast as it is currently
(initially 2MBs). The maximum range and speed have increased fairly steadily as
shown in the table. Special protocol features allow users to create Personal
Area Networks (PAN).

Characteristics of different Bluetooth versions

Bluetooth
• High speed communication over short distances
•• PAN (Personal Area Network)
• Connects our mobile devices
•• Smartphones
•• Tethering
•• Headsets and headphones
•• Health monitors
•• Automobile and phone integration
•• Smartwatches
•• External speakers

Uses radio waves to connect peripherals and 
transfer data 
 
Devices must “pair” with each other before any 
data can transfer 
 
Uses 
• 
Connect to a headset 
• 
Connect to vehicle audio system 
• 
Transfer files 
• 
 
Range of 100m 

==== IR
IR— infrared technology, uses up to 4 mbps; line of sight needed; maximum
distance is 3 feet.

IR

Infrared transmissions use the invisible light spectrum to transmit low power
signals to compatible devices. There are many applications that utilize the
technology, most notably remote control signaling for home theatre devices,
garage door openers, and any dedicated device that has an unobstructed
line-of-sight. Some smartphones incorporate this technology allowing users
control of their multimedia components.


IR (Infrared)
• Included on many smartphones, tablets, and smartwatches
•• Not really used for file transfers and printing
• Control your entertainment center
•• Almost exclusively IR

Infrared
Uses invisible light to transfer data between 
devices 
 
The devices must be aligned so that their IR 
transmitter/receiver have a clear line of sight 
 
Uses 
• 
Transfer data between devices 
 
IR was popular around 2010, but currently few 
mobile devices have IR capabilities 

==== Hotspot
Hotspot— A mobile hotspot allows wireless connections to your phone for the
purpose of tethering.

Hotspot/tethering

During tethering, a smartphone is connected to a laptop or tablet using a
compatible USB cable, allowing the cellular device’s connection to be shared
wirelessly to other devices. During this process, the Internet connection is
used to create a mobile hotspot, through which the other devices can access
resources on the internet.

Hotspot
• Turn your phone into a WiFi hotspot
•• Your own personal wireless router
•• Extend the cellular data network to all of your devices
• Dependent on phone type and provider
•• May require additional charges and data costs


Hotspot
Mobile device broadcasts a Wi-Fi signal (acts 
like a wireless access point) 
 
Other devices can connect to it 
 
Uses 
• 
Provide a wireless internet connection to 
a laptop, phone, tablet, or other device 
• 
Useful when travelling with a laptop and 
unable to find an internet connection 
 
Range of 100m, but depends on power mobile 
device and interference from walls, buildings, and other obstruction
== Accessories
Accessories

You should be familiar with these accessories for mobile devices and be
comfortable identifying them.

Accessories

Practically speaking, any network-capable and many device-specific accessories
can be connected, used, or shared. Here is the short list.

Phone Accessories 
A wide range of phone accessories are available 
Phone accessories connect via 
• 
USB/lighting (very common) 
• 
Bluetooth (very common) 
• 
Headphone jack (common for headphones, and less common for other devices) 
• 
Internet (Wi-Fi/cellular data) (phone and device share data through an external
server) 
A wireless accessory will usually contain a USB port for charging, or will
contain batteries 


=== Headsets
Headsets

These come in wired and wireless versions and allow you to use your cell phone
for voice calls or audio. The advantage is that you can be hands-free when using
  a headset.


Headsets

The diminutive size of most smartphones and even laptops makes sound
reproduction a challenge. A good headset can be connected using the 1/8”
headphone jack, USB, or Bluetooth. Any of these connection types will provide
high quality audio.


Headsets
• Hands-free audio - Earphones and microphone
• Wired
•• Connects to TRRS connector (Tip-Ring-Ring-Sleeve)
• Wireless - Bluetooth headsets


Phone headset 
• 
“Over the ears” headsets are adjustable, 
and may or may not contain a 
microphone (first two photos) 
• 
“Ear buds” style headsets fit into ears 
and have replaceable buds.  They may 
or may not contain a microphone 
embedded into the wire. 
 
Headsets 
• 
Wired (headphone jack) or wireless 
(Bluetooth) connectivity 
• 
Bluetooth offer higher quality audio than 
the headphone jack 
• 
Headsets can be noise cancelling 
• 
Typically, don’t require a power source 
or battery 
• 
Price ranges between $10 and $1000 
 
Examples are Bose, Skull Candy, Beats Audio, 

=== Speakers
Speakers

Speakers are often wireless and are used for playing sound while on a mobile
device. They are usually powered by batteries.

Speakers/Docking Station

The device size and speaker quality will have the greatest impact on the sound
quality again. If you plan on using your mobile device to listen to music or
watch movies, the built-in speakers in most mobile devices will not provide the
most enjoyable experience.

Tablet dock

For the most enjoyable experience, connect your device to a docking station
containing stereo speakers and possibly a sub-woofer. There are many brand
specific docks built exactly for your device.

Speakers
• Mobile audio - Battery powered
• Wireless connection - Bluetooth link
• Stereo sound - Small package

An external speaker 
• 
Can connect to the headphone jack or 
over Bluetooth 
• 
Will play audio sent by phone 
• 
May contain a USB port for charging 
• 
Prices range from $20 to $1000 
 
Example is the Beats Pill 

=== Gamepads
Game Pads

These are often wireless and allow you to play games on your mobile device by
using a separate, dedicated controller.

Game pad

In a gaming machine, once you have a high speed processor, a high resolution
display, and superior sound, the last thing you will need is a superior game
controller. The controller should have good response numbers as you do not want
any missed actions and poor response time. Avoid poor or bad connections by not
using Bluetooth or IR controllers since those devices need a direct line of
sight. Something as simple as your pet or a friend passing between your
controller and the gaming machine could get you killed in the game quickly.

Game Pads
• Gaming console feel - Mobile phone or tablet
• Connect with Bluetooth - Wireless connectivity

A gamepad 
• 
Can play games on a phone or tablet 
• 
Provides additional controls not 
available on the phone 
• 
May contain a bracket to secure the 
phone in place 
• 
Connects over Bluetooth or USB 
• 
Prices range from $20 to $150 


=== Extra battery packs/battery chargers
Extra Battery Packs/Battery Chargers

Extra batteries allow you to keep power on your phone throughout the day, even
when there is no charger accessible. Mobile battery chargers allow you to
pre-charge a small device, then connect it to your phone later as a mobile
charging source.

Extra battery pack/ battery charger

When you travel, many airports, train stations, and hotel lobbies have charging
stations for your devices. If you have the ability, carry an extra battery and
keep it charged. It sounds simple but there are few things worse than having the
foresight to have an extra battery and later find that it’s dead! Lastly, bring
a power inverter that you can plug into a rental car’s cigarette lighter and so
that you can charge your devices.

Extra battery packs / battery chargers
• Power is key - And in short supply
• Swappable battery pack
•• Carry an extra or two
• External USB chargers
•• Phones and tablets
•• And any other USB devices

Older phones have replaceable batteries, newer 
phones do not 
 
There are two options for increasing battery 
capacity 
• 
An external case containing a battery.  
The phone fits into the case, and the 
case connects to the phone’s USB port.  
The case supplies power to the phone.  
This becomes a relatively permanent 
part of the phone.  An example is the 
Apple Smart Battery Case (first photo) 
• 
A power bank device connects to the 
USB port and charges the battery.  A 
typical power bank device has capacity 
to charge a phone twice.  The power 
bank device can be charged via USB 
(second photo). 
• 
Costs around $40 
 
 

=== Protective covers/waterproofing
Protective Covers

Protective covers typically stick on the display of your screen to avoid
scratching. You can also use cases that cover your entire phone to help prevent
further damage, such as cracks or water damage. Some covers provide water
resistance while other provide waterproofing

Protective covers / waterproofing

Protect your devices from the elements by placing your devices in protective
cases that will protect them if dropped and keep them dry. Be smart and don’t
blindly trust these protections past what common sense would indicate.

Protective covers
• Screen protector
•• Avoid scratches
•• May be difficult to install
• Device protector
•• Wrap the entire device
•• Waterproofing options are available
•• Can create problems for docking stations

Phone cases 
• 
Many models and styles are available 
from practical to stylish, and in a wide 
variety of colors 
• 
A phone case will be custom to a 
particular phone model 
• 
Contains cut-outs for the phone’s 
cameras and sensors  
• 
Phone cases can be soft or hard 
• 
Protects phone from damage when it is dropped

May provide waterproofing 
• 
Example of a protective case is the Otter 
box 
• 
Another option is to coat the screen 
with a protective coating or a screen 
protector, which prevents scratches. 
• 
Cases cost between $10 and $50, but 
high-end designer cases may cost 
thousands of dollars 
• 
Screen protectors cost about $10 

=== Credit card readers
Credit Card Readers

These readers can connect to the audio port on your mobile device and allow you
to accept credit cards through the reader in real time.

Credit card readers

If your business requires taking payments, there are very handy credit card
readers that attach to your cell phone and validate credit cards over the
internet.

Credit card readers
• Phone or tablet becomes a point of sale terminal
•• Connections to audio/mic TRRS jack
•• Great for small and mobile businesses
• Uses the Internet link for approvals
•• Immediate feedback
• Additional features
•• Email receipts
•• Sign with your finger

Credit Card Reader 
• 
Allows cell phone user to accept mobile 
payments (alternative to carrying a 
credit card machine) 
• 
Most popular is Square 
• 
Credit card reader connects to the 
phone’s headphone jack, USB port, or 
via Bluetooth 
• 
Linked to a smartphone app 
• 
A more advanced reader contains a 
screen and a keypad (for entering a PIN) 

=== Memory/MicroSD
Memory

This is a common feature found on most Android devices. It allows you to add an
extra memory card to increase the storage space of your device. Memory cards
come in different physical form factors and sizes. MicroSD memory is used in
smartphones and other mobile devices.

Multi Smart card readers

For Memory/MicroSD, carry a read/write USB adapter that will let your
presentations or sales data live on if your primary device fails. Keep the
backed up information up to date.


Memory / microSD
• Increase storage capacity of smartphone or tablet
•• Common on Android devices
•• Not available on iOS devices
• MicroSD cards
•• Small form factor, with increasing capacities

Memory card 
• 
Increases memory of phone 
• 
Size ranges between 4GB and 512GB 
• 
MicroSD and MicroSDXC are the most common formats

Some phones have space for memory cards, 
including an SD card or a Micro SD card 
 
You can increase the memory of the phone up 
to 1TB 
 
Some phones do not have the ability to add a memory card (like Apple iPhone)
