= 1.7 Given a scenario, use methods to perform mobile device synchronization.
Mobile Device Synchronization (scenario)

Push synchronization automatically syncs data between mobile devices and desktop
devices. An example is when entries made on your desktop calendar or contact
list are automatically synchronized with your mobile device. You must be able to
synchronize mobile devices using various methods in a given scenario.

Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! In this section, we will look at the ways
data is managed in order to prevent loss in the mobile environment. In
particular, we will look at the ways to synchronize (sync) data with your PC or
within the cloud. We will look at the types of data typically synced by category
and application. We will look at the methods used and how your authentication
credentials are common among various services. Specialized software and
encrypted connections will be covered as they may be required. Here is a look at
some free sync apps available for Android in Google Play.

Click here to go back to the A+ Main Domain 1.0 Table of Content﻿


== Synchronization methods
Synchronization Methods

You have the option to synchronize data to the cloud or to your desktop. IOS
devices allow you to synchronize to the desktop using Apple iTunes on Windows or
MAC OS. Android synchronizes nearly everything online. If you use a Windows
Phone, the Windows Phone app can synchronize your media. Lately, most
synchronization has been moving to cloud-based systems.

Synchronization methods

There are three main ways to sync data.

Synchronizing your data
• No single desktop
  • Many different devices
• Complete mobility
  • Access anything from anywhere
• Many different types of data
  • Email, calendar, apps, etc.
• All devices must stay synchronized
  • Most of it is invisible to us
• Mutual authentication
  • The client and server must authenticate with each other 

Synchronization Methods 
 
• 
We set up synchronization settings in the previous sections (examples include
iCloud account, 
Google account, Microsoft Exchange, Bluetooth connection) 
• 
Once the settings are in place, the phone will connect and sync with the 
cloud/desktop/automobile automatically, provided it is connected to the 
internet/desktop/automobile 
• 
=== Synchronize to the cloud
To the Cloud

Android, Apple, and Windows devices all have options to synchronize data to the
cloud. Android syncs to Google Drive, Apple to iCloud, and Windows to OneDrive.

1) Synchronize to the Cloud

In order to synchronize to the Cloud, i.e. syncing your desired data to the
Cloud, you will need an internet connection. Examples of free, limited, and
subscription Cloud services include iTunes, iCloud, Google Drive, Dropbox, and
OneDrive. If you are using a proprietary synchronization method, be aware that
it may only sync the proprietary data or specially configured data. For example,
a Dropbox sync requires the data to be synced to be uploaded first to the online
Dropbox folder, after which it will be synched. In the case of iOS products,
only some of your content can be synced such as purchased content.

Cloud 
o Sync e-mail, contacts, photos, passwords, or complete back-up of the phone 
• 


=== Synchronize to the desktop
To the Desktop

Synchronizing a mobile device to the desktop is typically initiated by simply
connecting the device to the desktop USB port. That will, in most cases, open a
dialog to start the sync. Synchronization can also be done through a WiFi
connection.

2) Synchronize to the Desktop

Synchronizing to the Desktop is quite common and is often accomplished through a
physical connection between the mobile device and the desktop. However, this
sync can be configured across all configured devices as you will see. Here, we
are using Windows Media player to sync images with the desktop and Android
device.

Android Sync with Desktop

Here, you can see the other sync apps available from the Play Store.

 Android Apps in the Play Store

Desktop 
o Sync all files and data 
o Both the phone and the Desktop can sync with the cloud 
o Desktop and phone sync over a local network, internet, or USB connection 
o E-mail usually syncs between the phone and the server, and then between the
server 
and other user devices (tablet, other phones, desktops) 
o Can use a third-party application to sync phone (examples include Wondershare, 
SyncMate) 
•

=== Synchronize to the automobile

To the Automobile

With cars now providing connectivity to cell phones, synchronizing contact data
is very helpful. Music players and connections to smartphones in cars also
invites synchronization of music. Bluetooth and USB connections may be used to
synchronize phones and cars.

3) Synchronize to the Automobile

Many newer vehicles are equipped with hands-free technology, allowing your cell
phone to connect to the car’s audio system. When first connected, your car will
prompt you to sync your contacts.

 Types of data to synchronize

The sync process, which creates a second copy of the selected content in another
location, is a real logistical time saver as well as a good loss prevention
technique for your data. Whether you are syncing with a local computer, a
network, or a cloud based location, the data classifications and programs used
will usually be the same. We will look at the data types first.

 
Automobile 
o Sync contacts, recent calls received and made, possibly GPS location or
updates. 
o For safety reasons, very few items sync with the vehicle except those that can
be 



== Types of data to synchronize
Types of Data to Synchronize

The key to the success of mobile devices is the ability to synchronize data
across many varied devices. For example, new contacts added on your tablet
device will automatically synchronize with your cell phone, so you are able to
communicate with that contact when needed, no matter what device you are using.
Similarly, adding a business meeting to your desktop calendar can synchronize
with your tablet device, so that, when you are away from your desk, you still
can view your schedule for planning. Other popular items to synchronize include
the following: programs, e-mail, pictures, music, videos, bookmarks, documents,
location data, social media data, and e-Books.

Data Types
• Contacts
• Applications
• Email
• Pictures, music, video
• Calendar
• Bookmarks
• Documents
• Location data
• Social media data
• eBooks
• Passwords 

Types of Data to Synchronize 
 
• 
There are many types of data that can sync 
o Contacts 
o Applications 
o Email 
o Pictures 
o Music 
o Videos 
o Calendar 
o Bookmarks 
o Documents 
o Location data (typically turned off by default) 
o Social media data 
o E-books 
o Passwords (passwords are typically encrypted before being synced; can only be

viewed on the original device) 
• 
It’s possible to select the types of data that can be synced or not synced 
• 
Data can be synced with one application provider or with multiple providers.
Some examples: 
o Facebook app may only sync with Facebook servers, and only back up Facebook
data 
E-mail data syncs with e-mail provider 
o Photos sync with Google Photos app 

=== Contacts
Contacts

Contacts are one of the most important types of data to synchronize.We rely on
it for phone calls and e-mail messages. With many people having hundreds of
contacts with frequent additions, updates, and deletions, it would be quite
cumbersome to make changes on our phones, desktops, laptops, tablets, and even
our cars. Synchronizing contacts between these devices saves a lot of time and
trouble.

Contacts

Your contact list or address book is a great way to retain information about
those you interact with. However, this information is only useful if it is
accessible. Ideally, any mobile contacts should be available on your home or
office PC or vice versa. This is accomplished by importing or exporting
information to suit your needs.


=== Applications
Applications

Synchronizing application data is more common in commercial applications. When a
device and server need to share data but may not always be connected,
synchronization keeps the data alike in both places. Delivery applications in
which a driver is updating tracking information on a package is one example.

Applications

Typically, the applications used for the sync process are OS dependent, i.e. a
Google Gmail account for Google Drive on Android, Apple’s iCloud for syncs to
and from the internet, and iTunes to/from the PC. Most mobile OSs include some
type of sync or backup capability. Usually, these tools allow you to choose
which content should be synced. Third party apps are also available should the
built-in options not suit your needs.


=== Email
E-mail

E-mail is probably on the top of most people’s list of essential applications.
Viewing your e-mail on your laptop and then having it available on your phone
when you are on the road is a great feature of e-mail synchronization.

Email

Email is an example of one of the earliest applications of synced and easily
accessible data, email contact lists. Your email client may sync contacts or
address books, reminders, and the emails themselves. You can choose to sync any
or all of these.


=== Pictures
Pictures

People fear losing pictures, as some can never be replaced. Synchronizing
pictures provides the added advantage of serving as a quick, if temporary,
backup of pictures. It also allows you to show off pictures on your phone, while
being able to view it in higher resolution on your desktop.

Pictures

Pictures can be synced between devices and the internet. While technically a
backup, using a shared internet location such as iCloud Drive or Google Drive
allows you to sync your content easily. The online presence of your data is the
key to unifying the content across all of your devices.


=== Music
Music

Synchronizing music files allows them to be played wherever you are on whichever
device works best at the time. Music files tend to be quite large, so you need
to be selective to avoid running out of memory on any given device.

Music -Videos – Documents ––Bookmarks

These can also be synced and shared using the same tools described above. Simply
select or deselect the content as desired. It is important that you set how you
want the sync to handle duplicate content. You don’t want to lose anything, but
you also do not want multiple copies of the same content.

=== Videos
Videos

Similar to music, synchronization allows you to view videos on whatever device
best serves you at the moment. The same memory concern applies here as it does
for music.

=== Calendar
Calendar

Creating a calendar on a desktop and then being able to access and update it on
your phone when out on the road is one of the best synchronization features.

Calendar

Your email client will typically include a calendar. You can choose to sync any
or all of it.

=== Bookmarks
Bookmarks

Most browsers allow you to automatically synchronize bookmarks between devices,
so that you have the same bookmarks available on all of your devices.

=== Documents
Documents

Synchronization to the cloud is commonly used to synchronize documents. It
allows you to start working on a document on your desktop at work and then
continue working on it on your phone on your train commute home.

=== Location data
Location Data

Synchronizing location data is useful for applications like tracking packages or
even tracking a runner for safety or “cheering” purposes.

Location data

Location data is used most importantly by emergency services. When you make a
VoIP or cellular call to 911, your location information is shared whether you
have the feature enabled or not. If enabled, the location data synced to the
cloud can be used to find lost mobile devices. Depending on the app, you can
tell the device to ring or emit a tone, show current or last location on a map,
and activate the camera to view potential information about the people or places
in sight.


=== Social media data
Social Media Data

Being able to post to multiple accounts at once is possible through
synchronization. This is especially for companies that use various social media
as part of their business strategy.

Social media

Social media has the ability to sync a great deal of your data. Make sure your
synced data is encrypted and protected.


=== E-books
E-books

The ability to start reading an e-book on a desktop and then continuing where
you left off on your e-reader is a very handy use of synchronization.

eBooks

These can be synced individually or as a whole collection. The programs and
available settings are OS dependent.



=== Passwords
Passwords

Passwords may be synchronized when using a password manager. This allows you to
access your encrypted passwords from whichever device you are using. If you
change or add a password on one device, that change will be effective on the
other devices as well. Passwords stored in browsers may also be synchronized.

Passwords

Offer to Save Passwords

When you enter a new password in Android or Chrome, you’ll be asked if you want
to save the password in your Google Account, making them available to any device
that accesses the Google Account. iOS users can sync the Keychain to iCloud. A
sample of saved passwords for a Google account used with Chrome is shown below.



== Mutual authentication for multiple services (SSO)
Mutual authentication

SSO (Single Sign On) is a feature used by Microsoft, Google, and Apple to allow
a single login to provide access for multiple services.

Mutual authentication for multiple services (SSO)

Mutual authentication for multiple services, otherwise known as Trust, occurs
when the client(s) must authenticate with the server(s), and vice versa, before
any actual data is exchanged in either direction. Communication only takes place
after both parties are satisfied that the other party is authentic. If there is
a problem, a connection will not be established. Sometimes in a browser, a red
padlock will appear as opposed to a green padlock which indicates that the
connection is secure. This type of authentication allows users to access
authorized content or services from the desktop or mobile platforms using a
Single Sign–On (SSO). In some cases, the connection is allowed and access is
reported to the primary account holder.

Mutual Authentication for Multiple Services (SSO) 
 
• 
Single Sign On allows a user to log on once with an authentication server 
• 
The authentication server provides a token to authenticate the user across
multiple services 
(avoids having the user log in multiple times) 
• 
Single Sign On uses Lightweight Directory Access Protocol 
• 
Many different providers offer Single Sign On 
o Google 
o Microsoft (Active Directory) 
o Some social media providers 
• 
For example, a user could log in to their Windows computer via Windows Authentication 
o Windows would automatically sign them into their e-mail (Outlook), Skype, 
procurement software, HR software, etc. 
o Each of the other software applications authenticates through the same Windows 
credentials 
o The user only logs in once, and the Microsoft Active Directory server authorizes them 
to access all of the other resources 


== Software requirements to install the application on the PC

Software Requirements

Synchronizing between devices with different operating systems, such as Android,
iPhone, and a Windows PC may require specific software. You need to understand
the specific software requirements to install an application on the PC.

Software requirements to install the application on the PC

Reviewing software requirements to install the application on the PC ensures
that the hardware connectivity requirements have been met. You can then expect
to download and install applications to the PC. The application and app are
different but when chosen correctly, are usually designed to install correctly
on mobile or desktop devices.

Software Requirements to Install the Application on the PC 
 
• 
There are three scenarios 
o A phone sync app 
 
Examples include iTunes and Wondershare 
 
This app requires a recent version of Windows or OSX 
 
It communicates with the phone either via USB or the network 
 
A user can back up all phone data (subject to the security restrictions on the 
phone) 
o A phone app with a Windows or OSX version 
 
Examples include iMessage and WhatsApp 
 
You can download a Windows version of WhatsApp, which syncs with the 
WhatsApp app on your phone and send/receive messages from both the PC 
and the phone 
 
This app type only syncs data related to the app 
o A web-based service 
 
Examples include Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn 
 
The data accessed through the phone app can also be accessed through a 
web site (web browser) 
 
This app type only syncs data related to the app 
 
Does not back up any data to the user’s computer 
• 
Can use an Android emulator (like Bluestacks) to run Android apps on a PC or Mac 

== Connection types to enable synchronization
Connection Types

You need to know how to enable synchronization to the cloud as well as to the
desktop. The various connection types you can use between devices include: USB,
Bluetooth, WIFI, or utilizing cloud storage as a two-step process. Copy from
mobile device to cloud storage, then from cloud to desktop.

Connection types to enable synchronization

Connection types that enable synchronization are often high speed and reliable.
These include your home 802.11 Wi-Fi connection as well as USB and FireWire.
These connections offer two-way transmission of data over a secure and reliable
connection, which is crucial to synchronization. For example, however good your
cellular provider is, there is no continuity guarantee associated with
synchronization.  In addition, your data limits or a connectivity issue could
cause a sync to fail. These events are less likely on Wi-Fi or direct cable
connections.

n Types to Enable Synchronization 
 
• 
Typical synchronization connection 
o Phone connects to internet and syncs data with server 
o Other devices (other phones, tablets, desktop) connect to server and
download/sync 
data over the internet 
• 
Alternative synchronization connection 
o Connect phone directly to the PC over USB, or over a local network (the PC and

phone locate each other on the local network) 
o The two devices share data directly 
• 
Print from iOS and Android through a wireless connection to a local printer or
Google Cloud
 
Synchronize to the cloud
• Completely hands-off
  • No physical cables, no local files
  • May be integrated into your 
  • Exchange or Gmail
  • Choose provider network and/or Wi-Fi
• Apple iOS
  • Sync all data types to iCloud
  • Complete backup and recovery
• Android
  • Configure your Google account
Synchronize to the desktop
• Application requirements - OS and disk space
• Operating System
  • Mac, Windows
  • Synchronize to the desktop
  • Relatively modern versions
• Memory - Relatively minimal
• Storage space
  • Enough to store backups, video, pictures
  • You’ll need quite a bit 
• iOS
  • Apple iTunes - syncs everything in the phone
  • Creates full backups on the computer
• Android
  • Syncs online with Google
  • Use third-party apps like doubleTwist to transfer movies and music 
Synchronize to the automobile
• Connect to your automobile over Bluetooth or wired cable
  • Extends the phone functionality into the vehicle
• Display maps, control phone calls, play music
  • Big display screen, keep hands on the wheel
• iOS CarPlay, Android Auto
  • Synchronizes contact information, music, and other details
  • Shares phone information in real-time
  • This could be a security issue in a rental car

Synchronization connections
• iOS
  • USB - Proprietary (30-pin or 8-pin Lightning)
  • USB-C
  • 802.11 wireless
  • Mobile network
• Android
  • USB Micro-B
  • USB-C
  • 802.11 wireless
  • Mobile network



