= 1.8 – Given a scenario, configure Microsoft Windows networking on a
client/desktop.

== HomeGroup vs. Workgroup Microsoft Windows Networking (scenario)

Windows comes with many abilities to effectively use network resources.

HomeGroup vs. Workgroup

    HomeGroup doesn’t require a lot of configuration and is best suited for
    small home networks to share files and printers.

    Workgroup allows better flexibility and extended functionality and is best
    suited for small business networks.


We’ll start by defining the types of networks supported by Microsoft:
peer-to-peer (P2P) networks (such as WorkGroup or HomeGroup) and Domain
networks.

HomeGroup vs. WorkGroup

The HomeGroup is the least secure P2P approach for networking and sharing. This
model allows anyone with access to the Homegroup to view all the files shared on
any computer in the group. This is an easy but insecure approach since anyone on
the HomeGroup network can access anything shared on the network. A single
password is used for access to the group, providing equal access to all joined
devices.

The WorkGroup describes a P2P network with no centralized authority. Each device
on the network controls what is shared from that particular device or
workstation in addition to which users or groups can access it. In this model,
each workstation controls the database of users and privileges collectively,
referred to as the workgroup. Each device that is part the workgroup allows
access on a user-by-user or group-by-group basis. Network usernames and
passwords control access. Local Users and Groups are used to configure and
control access.

HomeGroup vs WorkGroup • A WorkGroup and a HomeGroup allow users to share files
and printers over the network • WorkGroup o WorkGroup is a hybrid of a Domain
system o All computers must be on the same network to be part of the same
WorkGroup o A WorkGroup is not protected by a password  To log on to a
WorkGroup computer, a user must have an account on that computer • HomeGroup o
All computers must be on the same network to be part of the same HomeGroup o The
HomeGroup is protected by a password, but a user only needs to enter the 

== Domain setup Domain Setup

Windows Domain is a solution for larger organizations and scales very well. It
allows many security features to limit access to resources to specific groups.
It requires proper configuration of domain controller servers. The computers and
the users on the domain need to be configured to use the domain as well.

Domain setup

The Domain network structure is the most secure design supported. Generally
speaking, the Domain network structure is implemented on larger business
networks compared to P2P deployments. A degree of administrative overhead is
needed here, allowing for all resources on the network to be controlled from a
single central server using Active Directory. Active Directory creates and
maintains a database of network resources. The client/server model is used and
multiple servers are supported.

The Windows domain (client/server) network design uses more robust operating
systems on the servers, referred to as Network Operating Systems (NOS). This
means that simple operating systems, such as Windows Starter or Home edition,
will not be able to join. The flexibility of the Active Directory model allows
for a single server to be dedicated to a single discipline. Alternatively, that
  same server can be configured to provide multiple network services. This
  allows powerful network configurations to be created using a minimum amount of
  physical machines. For the test, you will not be expected to know how many
  servers a particular machine can support.

Domain Setup • Make sure that you can reach the domain controller via the
network • Go to System Properties • Enter the domain • The computer will prompt
you for a username/password that has permission to join the domain (typically an
admin account) • The computer will join the domain (a reboot is required for the
change to take effect) 

== Network shares/administrative shares/mapping drives Network
Shares/Administrative Shares/Mapping Drives

Windows allows sharing of files and folders over the network, allowing a shared
space for network users. For convenience, network shares can be mapped to a
drive letter. For the users and applications, the network share appears like a
local disk.

Administrative shares are created automatically to allow remote administrators
to configure the computer. These shares are not shown and are not accessible to
non-administrative users.

Network shares/administrative shares/mapping drives

We will now look at Network shares. This share type allows data to be shared
using existing network shares. An existing folder can be shared or a location
can be created and subsequently shared.

Additional methods for sharing data are administrative shares and drive mapping.
Administrative shares are a useful administrative tool that allows data to be
shared invisibly. This method uses the Windows NT operating system in order to
create hidden network shares. These shares are only accessible using the full
path and folder name and will not appear when browsing. The shares will display
locally in the Computer Management console and are identified using the $ as the
last character of the Share Name. They can be disabled but not deleted.

Administrative Shares

Mapping drives and printers is a technique which creates a shortcut on the local
computer that points to a folder or drive on another PC. A drive letter is
assigned to the remote resource and appears as a local drive on the host.

Mapped drives can be assigned to reconnect whenever the local machine has
restarted, making them appear consistently as a logical drive on the host and
therefore reducing the time it takes to find the resource. Drive mapping can be
used on different operating systems utilizing the Network File System (NFS). Any
locally available drive letter can be assigned, such as Z: in the example below:

Map Network Drive

Network shares/administrative shares/mapping drives  • Can share a folder with
other users on the network • Go to folder properties and choose Share • Enter a
Share name 
 
• Other users can access the folder by navigating to Network, choosing the
hostname of the 

 network folder can be mapped as a drive o Choose Map Network Drive from This PC
 o Choose a drive letter o Enter the network location (hostname or IP address) o
 You may be required to enter a username or password 

== Printer sharing vs. network printer mapping Printer Sharing vs. Network
Printer Mapping

You can use the printer sharing functionality to allow printing from other
computers to the printer connected locally. To print using a shared printer on a
remote computer, it needs to be mapped first, installing the drivers for the
printer.

Printer sharing vs. network printer mapping

There are two ways printers can be accessed on a network: printer sharing and
network printer mapping. During printer sharing, a locally attached printer is
shared on the network. During network printer mapping, the printer is accessible
using its IP address as shown in the example below. You will assign a IP address
or use the MAC address. You may also opt to install drivers for other Windows
versions, for example Windows 7, Windows 8 or Windows 10, as needed for
compatibility.

Network Printer properties

Establish networking connections

Printer sharing vs. network printer mapping  There are two ways to access a
printer • Printer Sharing: the printer is installed on one computer and other
users connect to the printer through that computer • Printer Mapping: the
printer is set on the network.  Each user connects to the printer directly.  You
can share a printer the same way you can share a folder • Go to Printer
Properties • Choose the Sharing tab • Choose to share the printer and enter a
name • Other users can access the printer by navigating to Network, choosing the
hostname of the computer that is sharing the printer, and then viewing the
printer • Any document being printed passes through the computer that is sharing
the printer 

== Establish networking connections Establish Networking Connections

There are multiple ways to connect a Windows computer to a local or remote
network.



=== VPN VPN

VPN is a Virtual Private Network and uses another underlying network, usually
the internet. It allows secure access to a remote location over public
infrastructure.


VPN

A VPN connection (Virtual Private Network) establishes a safe secure tunnel over
an existing connection (Internet) between the company network and a remote
location. The VPN tunnel is encrypted for maximum security. Microsoft includes
VPN support and there are numerous third-party programs that also perform this
function. The test is vendor neutral so we will discuss the Microsoft
implementation here.

Go to the Network and Sharing Center and select Choose your network settings
(Windows 7 and earlier) or use the Get Connected Wizard (Windows 8) from the
Settings Charm and type vpn in the search bar. Click the Set up a VPN link. You
will be prompted for the connection information supplied by your administrator.
Enter the information and click Create. In Networks, click the VPN connection
and authenticate. Any changes can be made to the connection in Connection
Properties. Take note of the Encryption and Authentication protocols and
settings.

VPN connection properties

stablish networking connections (VPN, Dial-ups, Wireless, Wired, WWAN –
Cellular) • VPN o Can install a VPN client application (such as Cisco VPN) or
set up the VPN manually o The VPN client application can configure advanced
settings o Choose to add a VPN 
 
o Enter the information  VPN Connection Name  VPN address  Username/Password
(optional) • It is possible to connect via a certificate 

=== Dial-up Dial-ups

Dial-up allows the user to connect to a remote computer over a telephone
network. The remote computer needs to be set up to listen and accept
connections.

Dialups

Dialups are painfully slow, yet are still effective ways to connect to the
internet in a pinch. An analog (POTS) phone line, a V.92 modem, a phone number
supplied by the ISP, and the login credentials are needed. Take note of the
Encryption and Authentication protocols and settings.

Dial-up connection

• Dial-Up o Choose to configure a Dial-Up connection o Your computer must be
connected to a dial-up modem o Enter the dial-up phone number, username and
password 
 
• === Wireless Wireless

Wireless network connections use Wi-Fi technology to connect. Because it is not
physically restricted in the area, the network will usually have another layer
of security in the form of a password or more complex authentication. Once
connected, the functionality is very similar to a wired connection.

Wireless

In order to configure a wireless connection to a router, the Service Set
Identifier (SSID) of the wireless router and the passphrase are needed. The
encryption, security type of the router, and the channel number are also helpful
to know in case of connection issues. Wireless security concerns can be
addressed by stopping the router from broadcasting its SSID, filtering the MAC
addresses of the devices allowed to connect, and reducing the radio power. Radio
power is often overlooked but the range of current routers far exceeds what is
needed to cover a SOHO or even a business with an unobstructed floor plan.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Wireless o Select a wireless SSID from one that is available o Enter the
password or username/password • 

=== Wired Wired

Wired connections usually come in a form of Ethernet to the computers. It
requires cabling to every computer and may require other network devices like
switches and routers.

Wired

As a rule, Wired networks require devices to be plugged into the network using
an RJ-45 Ethernet cable. However, accessing resources are subject to the same
administrative restrictions as other networks such as usernames and passwords.

Wired o Connect the cable to the ethernet port on the computer o The computer
should automatically connect to the wired network o You may need to configure a
static IP if the network isn’t DHCP  Select the Ethernet adapter  Choose IPv4
or IPv6 properties  Enter the IP address, gateway, subnet mask, and DNS server
addresses 



=== WWAN (Cellular) WWAN (Cellular)

Similar to mobile phones that can access the internet from anywhere, the
cellular network can be used to connect to the network. Some tablets and laptops
come with built-in cellular hardware.

WWAN (Cellular)

WWAN networks are generally utilized by internet-capable smartphones or
cellphones. These networks are provided by cellular phone companies that have
expanded their offerings to include internet access. WWANs are maintained and
controlled by the cell service carriers. The carrier requires specific detailed
information before it will allow the device access to its network. A SIM card or
chip inside the device provides your access information to the cellular carrier.
GSM and LTE both require a SIM card. USB WWAN devices are also available that
can be plugged into the PC to provide internet access.

WAN – Cellular o Your computer must be equipped with a cellular modem and SIM
card o The modem will typically obtain all settings from the network
automatically If not, you must configure the APN settings  You can obtain these
settings from the ISP 

== Proxy settings Proxy Settings

A proxy server is a form of a gateway. A common example is a web proxy that is
set up to filter access to the internet from a local network to improve
security.

Proxy settings

Proxy settings are managed in the browser’s Internet Options menu and from the
Control Panel. Many corporations and service providers use dedicated proxy
servers in order to increase the internet speed. Proxy servers provide a
dedicated, controllable resource that caches data locally. Below is an example
of a broadband proxy.

Proxy servers are not used with VPN connections. Proxy servers must be
configured individually for each connection type used.

Broadband Proxy settings

Proxy Settings • A proxy server sits between your computer and the internet •
You can access the proxy server from the Internet Properties 

== Remote Desktop Connection Remote Desktop Connection

Remote Desktop Connection allows you to connect to a remote Windows computer for
full control with a keyboard and mouse, and full graphical interface. The
computer needs to be configured to allow access.

Remote Desktop Connection

Using Windows on a network allows users to manage files and folders that are
shared on the network, provided the user has permission to do so. This is good
when working with documents or other files, however this is not good for
checking device settings and other system functions. Windows Remote Desktop
fills this void by making the entire desktop and the system available wherever
RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol) is available. The process has been around (before
the objectives) as Terminal Services and was introduced in Windows XP as Remote
Desktop, using port 3389. The port number is important because as seen in the
example, the program needs to be permitted access through the Firewall.

RDC and RA setup window

Remote Desktop Connection and Remote Assistance are enabled on the Remote tab in
the System Properties window. Once this is set, ensure that the user has remote
access privileges on both computers. Use Select Users for this.  When this is
done, access the program by typing the program name or the filename MTSC
(Microsoft Terminal Services Client) in the Start/Search bar.

Once the program is running, identify the target machine using the computer name
or IP address and supply the login credentials in the General tab.

First RDC Connection Window

The Display Tab sets the resolution and color depth. Both of these settings are
highly reliant on the connection speed and latency. Windows does its best to
compensate for quality issues on low-speed connections. This can be found in the
experience tab where bandwidth intensive features can be disabled in order to
optimize performance. Other features of Remote Desktop include the ability to
use local resources during the session as well as the ability to launch specific
programs upon connection or at any time during the session.
 
Remote Desktop Connection • Uses Remote Desktop Protocol • Developed by
Microsoft.  • Allows you to connect to a Windows machine o Install xrdp on a
UNIX machine to connect to it via RDP • The machine that you connect to must
have RDP enabled (requires Windows Professional) • You can share o Hard Drives o
Printers o Audio o Clipboard (can copy to/from host/remote computer) • You
launch RDP and enter the IP address / hostname 
 
• You are required to enter your username and password (on the remote computer)
to connect o The username and password must be configured on the remote computer
o Or the username and password must be configured on an Active Directory server
of which the remote computer is a part of • RDP uses TCP port 3389 • The
computer that you’re connecting to must permit remote connections o To enable
RDP, go to System Properties o You can choose to permit only specific users to
connect 

== Remote Assistance Remote Assistance

Remote Assistance allows a remote desktop connection, but a request to connect
needs to be generated and sent first. It creates a file that can be emailed and
used to connect.

Remote Assistance

Remote access to computers by trusted parties is a desirable way to handle
system repairs by technicians in addition to providing personal access to the
entire desktop and operating system. Windows Remote Assistance was introduced in
Windows XP as a way for users to obtain immediate assistance. In the corporate
world, this saved countless man-hours of support as it allowed the technician to
make a simple repair without having to walk the user through the physical repair
process. However, the technician would still need to explain what was done to
the user.

Remote Assistance requires access through the Windows Firewall. If a hardware or
third-party firewall program is used, Remote Assistance needs access through
that as well. Remote Assistance allows the user to send an invitation to a
trusted user in order to help resolve a computer issue. If you are able to offer
assistance to a user, you can respond to their invitation too. In either case,
Remote Assistance invitations work via request and respond. Security is managed
through the use of a passcode that the responder will need to know in order to
continue. When assistance is requested, a file with your connection properties
and the passcode will be sent to the party you ask. The chat feature is
available throughout the session and the bandwidth usage is controllable,
allowing either party to reduce the number of resources the system is using.
When actions are required by either party, they can “Take Control” of the
session. Output is visible to both parties at all times.

Remote Assistance • Allows others to connect to your computer to assist you •
They must use the Quick Assist application • Your computer must have the “remote
assistance” option enabled • There are some better third-party tools for
providing remote assistance (discussed later) 

== Home vs. Work vs. Public network settings Settings for Work Type

When connecting a Windows computer to a new network, it asks you to identify the
type of the network: Home, Work, or Public. When selected, the corresponding
discovery and firewall settings will be set to align with the security needs.

Home vs. Work vs. Public network settings

When setting up a network connection, your Windows machine may use Network
Location Awareness in order to automatically configure the Home, Work, or Public
network settings. This is crucial because if you are in a coffee shop while
using their Wi-Fi, you don’t want your data to be shared with everyone in the
shop. Let’s explain each network setting type below.

Home

The Home network setting makes all of your shared data discoverable by other
computers on the network. Throughout the various version and editions of
Windows, the settings for a private network are identical to those labelled
Private or Work. On the Home network setting, the PC cannot be accessed directly
from the Internet and relies on the hardware and software protection provided by
the gateway, router, or any other objects placed in between the PC and the
internet. The Home network setting is good for home and work, but is bad out in
a public environment since the PC is essentially unprotected.

Work

The Work network setting implies, but doesn’t guarantee, that a Domain is in
use. In this case, all aspects of connection security are handled by the
administrator through Group Policy and User Policy. The administrator will also
have control over user access and device privileges on the network.

Public

The Public network type is used when there is no security device between the PC
and the Internet. The Public network setting is the most restrictive since the
only protection available for the PC is Windows Firewall, any AntiVirus
programs, and any Malware protection that has been installed.

Home vs Work vs Public Network Settings • When connecting to a network for the
first time, you’re asked to choose what kind of network it is o Home and Work
networks are trusted (can share files and printers)  Home and Work networks
have the same settings, but Work networks won’t 

== Firewall settings Firewall Settings

Windows comes with configurable firewall rules to allow or block certain
applications or network ports and control the security.

Firewall settings

Windows Firewall is accessible from the Control Panel, Search, or run line.
Windows Firewall can also be accessed through some of the applets used to change
network settings such as the Network and Sharing Center. Windows Firewall is
accessible at the bottom left corner.

A firewall filters web traffic using TCP port numbers. The Windows Firewall is
quite user friendly and has an extensive list of preset programs that can be
modified using checkboxes.

Rules

It easy to understand why blocking all web traffic is counterproductive and
there is a very real need to allow some traffic to pass-through unrestricted.
Rules are defined to establish the directions for controlling the activity
between the network and the internet.

Firewall Settings (Exceptions, Configuration, Enable/Disable) • Mentioned
earlier • There are two ways to configure a firewall o Block all traffic and
then set rules to allow specific items (whitelisting)  More secure, but can
cause issues if legitimate traffic is blocked o Allow all traffic and then set
rules to block specific items (blacklisting)  Less secure, but more convenient
• Firewall comes preconfigured with a set of rules o When you install an
application, it will add/modify rules as necessary so that it can function o Can
create rules with the wizard  Allow/block traffic coming from or heading to a
specific IP address, port, or application • The Windows Firewall can be disabled
o Not recommended o Can be disabled if you use a third-party app to manage
security (such as Norton 

=== Exceptions Exceptions

When installing a new application that needs access to the network, Windows may
ask if it should be allowed and add an exception to the firewall.

Exceptions

The firewall comes preset with a basic set of rules allowing for basic
connectivity. Often, a user will use their device for years and not have to make
any changes to it. If any changes need to be made to a rule, this is referred to
as an Exception. After installing a new multiplayer game for example, you may
find that the game cannot connect to the internet servers. In this case, an
exception would need to be made for this game in the firewall settings.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002


=== Configuration Configuration

The Windows firewall can be manually configured to allow or deny applications
and network ports.


=== Enabling/disabling Windows Firewall Enabling/Disabling Windows Firewall

The Windows firewall can be switched off completely for the type of the network.
This effectively allows all network traffic and has to be used extremely
carefully to avoid exposing the computer to potential network threats and
unauthorized access.

Enabling/disabling Windows firewall

If you are having problems connecting to the Internet or even the local network,
quickly test the firewall by disabling it and then immediately checking your
connections. If the connectivity problem disappears, then you have zeroed in on
the issue. Be sure to turn the firewall back on as quickly as possible and then
look for the contributing factors. It is very important that you minimize the
time that the firewall is off.


== Configuring an alternative IP address in Windows Alternative IP Addresses

The IP address of a Windows computer can be dynamically acquired from a DHCP
server on the network, or configured manually. This is done within the TCP/IPv4
settings of the network adapter.

Configuring an alternative IP address in Windows

Most networks use DHCP for network configurations. DHCP is fast, efficient, and
has very little administrative overhead. DHCP servers ensure that addresses are
issued without duplication and that the client receives the correct 32-bit IP
Address, a valid 32-bit subnet mask, the address(es) of DNS servers, and a
gateway address to use when using addresses off the local network. Addresses for
WINS servers should also be provided. Windows IPv4 or IPv6 addresses can be
configured manually or automatically using DHCP. Here is a summary:

Alternate IP Config

Here is a look at a typical alternate IPv4 configuration. An IPv4
configuration’s constituent parts are described below.

nfiguring an Alternative IP address in Windows (IP address, subnet mask, DNS,
Gateway) • There are two scenarios o Your computer is accessible on more than
one IP address at the same time (for example, a computer server is connected to
multiple networks)  Choose Advanced from the IPv4 Properties window  In the
Advanced window (IP Settings tab), you can add multiple IP addresses, subnet
masks and gateways   In the Advanced window (DNS tab), you can add multiple DNS
servers 
 
o Your computer is used in two separate locations, and both require static IPs
(for example at an office and at home, and it is too much of a hassle to change
the static IP each time you go to work or go home)  It’s possible to configure
a second (or multiple) IP addresses on a computer  Traffic won’t route to the
second IP address unless the computer is in the correct subnet  Access IPv4
settings and choose Alternate Configuration 

=== IP addressing IP Addressing

The IP address needs to be in the same subnet with other hosts and the gateway,
but be unique.

IP addressing

IP Addressing is a blanket term that covers all of the items that follow.

An IP Address is a 32-bit address that is segmented into four eight-bit sections
called octets. The maximum value of any octet is 255 or 11111111 (binary).
Usually, the first two or three octets will identify the network and the
remainder will identify the host or device.


=== Subnet mask Subnet Mask

A subnet mask determines what hosts are on the same network with the local
computer. It needs to match between all the computers and network devices on the
local network.

Subnet mask

Subnet masks are used to identify the network and which of the remaining octets
are used to identify the host. For example if using a subnet mask of
255.255.255.0, this provides 24-bits (three octets) for the network and
eight-bits for the host.


=== DNS DNS

DNS are servers that resolve names (e.g., microsoft.com) to an IP address that
the computer can communicate with. More than one DNS server can be configured
for reliability.

DNS

DNS (Domain Name System) is a naming system for network connected devices. DNS
works well for human users because it is far easier to remember a few words
rather than a 32-bit string of numbers. DNS maintains a constantly refreshing
list of domain names with their corresponding IP addresses.


=== Gateway Gateway

A default gateway is a router that can forward the network traffic from the
local network to other remote networks. At least one of its interfaces has to be
on the same local network as the computer.

Gateway

A Gateway is a device on the network designated to provide access to the
Internet through the local LAN. A part of each machine’s IP configuration
includes the Default Gateway, an address to be used first when accessing data
that is not on the local LAN.


== Network card properties Network Card Properties

In addition to IP addresses, other settings can be manually configured on the
network card.

Network card properties

Network card properties belong to whichever device is being used to access the
network. A network card is required for each and every device that will access
the network. The term network card can be used to describe any device which
provides access at the physical layer regardless of the method (wired, wireless,
and all that follow). Interestingly, each connection possesses these qualities
with one exception. Let’s take a look.

etwork Card Properties (Duplex, Speed, Wake-on-LAN, QoS, BIOS (on-board NIC)) •
Depending on the type of network card, some of the following settings can be
modified o Can access the settings from the NIC Properties (in Device Manager) •
Duplex o There are three options: Auto, Half-Duplex, and Full-Duplex o
Half-Duplex is used for 10/100Mbps traffic (uses 4 of the 8 wires in an ethernet
cable) o Full-Duplex is used for 1000Mbps traffic (uses all 8 wires in an
ethernet cable), although it can be used for 10/100Mbps traffic o Auto allows
the two devices (your network card, and the switch/router/other network device
you’re connected to) to automatically agree on a duplex setting • Speed o There
are three options (at least): Auto, 100Mbps, 1000Mbps o There may be other
(faster options) such as 10Gbps, depending on the size of the card o Older cards
may offer the 10Mbps option as well o Auto allows the two devices (your network
card, and the switch/router/other network device you’re connected to) to
automatically agree on a speed • Wake-on-LAN o Allows a computer that is asleep
(but connected to ethernet) to automatically wake up if it receives a “magic
packet” o A Magic Packet is the value “FF FF FF FF FF FF” followed by sixteen
repetitions of the computer’s MAC address • QoS o Quality of Service o Allows
the network card to prioritize different types of traffic • BIOS o The NIC might
be integrated into the motherboard o Can enable or disable an integrated NIC
from the BIOS 

=== Half duplex/full duplex/auto Half Duplex/Full Duplex/Auto

    Duplex determines if the data can be transferred in both directions at the
    same time. Half duplex operates like a one-way walkie-talkie radio, where
    only one side can talk, and the other side waits for it to finish before
    talking.

    In full duplex mode, devices on both sides of the network cable can “talk”
    and “listen” at the same time, making data transfer faster and more
    reliable.

    The auto setting will try to determine if full duplex is available on the
    cabling or fall back to half duplex.

Half duplex/full duplex/auto

When we talk about Network speed, we’re usually referring to throughput, more
specifically Ethernet throughput. “Your results may vary” has never been truer
than in this case. Let’s start with a definition that will help clarify
additional items.

Duplex is not an apartment network. Duplex refers to the transmission of data
and what amount of time each user is allotted for transmission and receiving.
Duplex defines when a user can send and when a user can receive.

Half duplex

Half duplex refers to a situation where only two devices are present. In this
case, one device transmits while the other receives. The second device can then
send data back or remain silent. Image half duplex as how a walkie-talkie works.
At the end of each transmission, the sending unit will transmit a Clear to send
(CTS) message, indicating to all parties that the line is open. This is the
walkie-talkie equivalent of saying “over.”

Full duplex

Full duplex is the best way for data to travel over Ethernet. Using the same two
device example above, full duplex mode allows both of the devices to transmit
and receive at will. With full duplex, the speed is getting very close to the
advertised speed (more on that in a bit). For now, think of half duplex as one
way at a time and full duplex as anything anytime. 

The best way to manage the network interface’s settings is through Device
Manager. The adapter’s properties sheet has an Advanced tab which contains close
to 30 elements that can be tweaked. The first element we’ll look at is Speed and
Duplex. Here you can set the interface to its maximum speed, the speed the
network is running at, or to auto-negotiate.

Auto-negotiation

Auto-negotiation allows the network devices to send and receive packets to each
other very quickly in order to determine the best transmission and reception
settings for the connection. This occurs all in the blink of an eye.

Network speed properties


=== Speed Speed

Usually, speeds of 10, 100, and 1000 Mbits per second can be seen on networks.
This can be set manually or left in auto mode to determine the fastest speed
supported by the network.

Speed

Here, we will talk about the rated speed which is not the speed you will get
when you get home with the device. In fairness, the standard speed does not
account for administrative overhead and the retransmission of dropped packets.
We will start with wireless and confine it to what you can expect to see on the
test.

The following standards are all sanctioned by the IEEE and fall under section
802.11. They are differentiated by their alpha designation. We will list the
standard, the radio frequency band it operates in, its speed, and its range. We
are only concerned with four of the wired IEEE standards.

Do your best to really know this. It helps with the “big picture” types of
questions.

802.11a – 5.0 GHz frequency – speed up to 54 Mbps – Range of 50 meters 802.11b –
2.4 GHz frequency – speed up to 11 Mbps – Range of100 meters 802.11g – 2.4 GHz
frequency – speed up to 54 Mbps – Range of 100 meters 802.11n – 2.4 or 5.0 GHz
frequency – speed 300 to 600Mbps – Range outdoors of 250 meters* 802.11ac – 5.0
GHz frequency – speed of just under 7Gbps – Range outdoors of 250 meters

*) Uses MIMO (Multiple In Multiple Out) to bond channels together and increase
speed

Wired

For wired networking, speeds are faster than wireless networking, even with
legacy connection types. This speed increase comes at the expense of the
portability that wireless connections provide. Wired connections adhere to the
IEEE 802.3 standard.

Types

CAT5 – This is getting harder to find and is no longer installed. This cable
rating uses four pairs and can support up to 100Mbps transmission speeds with a
maximum cable length of 100 meters (328 feet). Higher speeds can be seen in
real-world applications but remember that you are not in the real world. You are
in the A+ and that’s the specification.

CAT5e – This is CAT5 Enhanced. The enhancement is due to reduced crosstalk. That
doesn’t sound like a big deal until you look at the specifications. How does 10
times faster sound? Got your attention now, I’ll bet. CAT5e supports gigabit
Ethernet (1000Mbps)! This can be attributed to a stricter attention to the
number of twists per inch in the pairs. In order to fully utilize the CAT5e
cable, remember that the hardware has to support the speed. CAT5e supports 1Gbps
with a maximum cable length of 90 meters (295 feet).

CAT6 – Okay, now we’re cooking! CAT6 supports 10Gbps at a frequency of 250 Mhz.
This speed increase can also be attributed to a reduction in crosstalk. While
maintaining the same external RJ-45 form, the connector and cable are engineered
to further isolate the cables from each other, resulting in the higher
throughput. The wires are arranged in the connector in such a way to allow for a
slight but significant separation over CAT5 wires, which run straightly
horizontal and adjacent to each other. As you know, parallel cables will
practically guarantee crosstalk. The maximum length is 90 meters with an
additional 10 meters for a patch cable.

CAT6e – This enhancement doubles the transmission frequency to 500 MHz and
restores the traditional segment length to 100 meters (328 feet). This is not
technically a standard but it is widely recognized and observed.

CAT7 – This performance standard increases the performance to 600 MHz and
provides a more reliable and durable cable than its predecessors. Most
importantly, CAT7 uses an additional layer of shielding by wrapping the entire
individually insulated pair with an additional layer, wrapping the whole cable
bundle.

Coaxial – RG-6 (Radio Grade-6) cables have a variety of uses, but are mainly
used in communication. The construction can vary slightly by manufacturer, but
all cables consist of a solid copper core encased in a plastic insulating
sleeve. The cable is covered by a wire mesh (sometimes foil) that insulates the
cable from noise and provides grounding. The entire cable is inside a plastic
jacket and is terminated with an F-type connector, used on RG-6 and RG-59
cables. RG-6 is becoming the preferred cable type for cable television (CATV).


=== Wake-on-LAN Wake-on-LAN

Wake-on-LAN is a function of a network card that allows you to power on the
computer when a special packet has been received. It may be useful in a scenario
with a computer that has resources that need to sometimes be accessed over the
network, but power needs to be preserved when it’s not accessed.

Wake on LAN

Last but not least, in our exhaustive list of content that would be good to be
comfortable with, is Wake on LAN. This handy little feature has been around
forever and is available on most motherboards that have an onboard NIC. This
feature is useful when you are trying to access a PC on your network or
elsewhere that has gone to sleep. Normally, you would have someone go to the
workstation and press a key or shake the mouse to wake the machine. The Wake on
LAN feature works by simply attempting to access the PC. This feature should be
listed on the Network. Double-clicking a folder will be met initially with an
error, but wait a few seconds and you will have access to anything shared.


=== QoS QoS

Quality of Service is a set of techniques to prioritize one type of traffic over
another. For instance, you may be using a computer for video conferencing while
transferring files. The video and audio traffic should take precedence over the
file transfer for a better overall experience.

QoS

Quality of Service (QoS) settings are also on the Device Manager’s Properties
Sheet under Priority and VLAN. Simply click to enable the priority. This is
simple but so much more happens.

If you want QoS to work at its absolute maximum, QoS must be configured on all
routers, switches, and computers that you anticipate will be using the program
you are implementing.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002


=== BIOS (on-board NIC) BIOS (On-Board NIC)

A network interface card may be separate or part of the motherboard (on-board).
In the case of an on-board NIC, some settings may be only available from the
BIOS settings.



BIOS (on-board NIC)

This technology is used when the network connection device is built into the
Motherboard and is controlled by the UFEI or BIOS. In addition to the operating
system settings, much of what follows is configurable in the BIOS.
