= 1.9 – Given a scenario, use features and tools of the Mac OS and Linux
client/desktop operating systems.  == Best practices

MacOS and Linux Systems (scenario)

MacOS and Linux operating systems come with similar utilities, tools, and
commands for configuration and maintenance.

Best Practices

There are some known good practices to maintain the system, data, and
performance, and these are the most important ones.

Best practices

Best Practices for a Mac • Scheduled backups o Use a program such as Carbonite
or schedule a task through Automator (Mac Task Scheduling app) o Regular backups
are important in case of damage to the computer • Scheduled disk maintenance o
Run disk utility to scan the disk for errors and repair them o Can repair bad
sectors, corrupted files, and fragmented files • System Updates/App Store o You
can check for updates from System Preferences (Software Update) o If an update
is available, you can choose the Update Now button to download and install it o
You can also set the Update tool to automatically download and install updates o
An update to macOS will automatically update apps like Mail and iTunes 
 
• Patch Management o Security updates come through the normal Apple procedure o
You can also use a third-party tool to manage updates for multiple machines at a
time • Driver/Firmware Updates o Driver updates typically download & install
automatically from the Software Update o If the driver update doesn’t download
automatically, then download it from the manufacturer’s website •
Antivirus/Anti-malware o Download and install an antivirus program o The
antivirus pr

=== Scheduled backups Scheduled Backups

Scheduled backups create a copy of data and configuration that can be restored
later if needed. The best practice is to frequently create backups of files, and
have a copy of important files at a remote location. This remote location may be
cloud storage that can be accessed over the internet.

Scheduled backups

Backups can be scheduled and maintained using the system tools listed in the
tools section below.


=== Scheduled disk maintenance Scheduled Disk Maintenance

There is no scheduled disk maintenance built into MacOS, but the Automator
allows you to schedule these jobs, and cron in Linux can be used to schedule any
command. The best practice is to schedule disk maintenance jobs to run outside
of business hours, or as needed.

Scheduled disk maintenance

In OS X, scheduled disk maintenance is performed using the Disk Utility app
located using the Finder in the Utilities folder. Within the Disk Utility tool
on the First Aid tab, disk permissions can be verified/ repaired or the entire
disk itself can be verified. Disk permissions can become corrupted after
multiple software installs or uninstalls.


=== System updates/App Store System Updates

In MacOS, the System Preferences for the App Store provide the configuration for
system updates. You can choose to either manually or automatically download and
install the updates.

Linux distros manage updates differently. In Ubuntu, the settings are very
similar to MacOS and accessed via the Software & Updates settings.

The best practice is to install updates as quickly as possible after they’re
released, but after ensuring there are no compatibility issues.

System updates/App store

In Linux, system updates can be obtained from the Terminal using the sudo
apt-get update command. On Macs, OS X updates can be downloaded and installed
automatically in much the same way that Windows systems handle updates. OS X
updates are obtained from the App store.


=== Patch management Patch Management

Patches are smaller updates, usually addressing specific functions and features,
security, and bugs. These are managed similarly to system updates. The best
practice is to allow automatic installation of patches to improve security, if
the environment allows this disruption.

Patch management

Patch management is the process of reviewing and controlling software and driver
fixes for repairing or patching hardware/software. In the case of urgent
security fixes, patches are often pushed onto the machine. Usually, patches can
be scheduled or separately downloaded to be installed manually.


=== Driver/firmware updates Driver/Firmware Updates

Drivers and hardware firmware sometimes get updated too. These are managed
similarly to system updates. Again, the best practice is to install driver
updates as quickly as possible after they’re released to improve hardware
performance, but after ensuring there are no compatibility issues.

Driver/firmware updates

Just as previously described for software, hardware manufacturers release
updated drivers and firmware for system hardware. These updates are usually in
response to a problem/bug or at times, to add new features or capabilities.


=== Antivirus/Anti-malware updates Antivirus/Anti-Malware Updates

Antivirus software may depend on the signatures of viruses and other malicious
software that needs to be updated. Make sure that the security software is
configured to get frequent updates after installing it.

Antivirus/ Antimalware updates

Although many believe that non-Windows operating systems are immune to malware
and viruses, it is still not recommended to access the Internet without
antivirus and anti-malware programs installed. These programs are frequently
updated, often during the discovery of a new threat. There are many programs to
choose from. The key is to find one that fits your needs.

For example, most programs offer free full feature versions of their product for
evaluation. These trials have time limits and will require purchase or
downgrading to a more basic version once the trial period has elapsed. If you
require automatic updates, this feature is usually not available in free
versions. There was one virus scanner whose free version would detect viruses.
However, the paid version would be required to remove the viruses.


== Tools Tools

To maintain the best practices, MacOS and Linux provide tools for system
maintenance. Here are some of them:

Tools

lick here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Mac Tools - Backup/Time Machine Time Machine allows you to back up your Mac •
Connect an external drive (USB or Network Attached Storage) • Choose to back up
to the drive via Time Machine (the Mac will automatically prompt you 

=== Backup/Time Machine Backup/Time Machine

MacOS comes with the Time Machine utility to create a backup to an external
drive. Linux has many options, a popular one being the Duplicity command line
utility as well as the Déjà Dup GUI interface for that utility. It will copy
selected files to a predetermined location on a schedule.

Backup/Time Machine

Backup, or Time Machine, is a Mac OS system backup utility where regular backups
can be scheduled or manual backups can be initiated. Drives can be backed up to
internal drives, DVDs, or any USB, FireWire, or Thunderbolt devices that are
accessible by the system.


=== Restore/Snapshot Restore/Snapshot

When files need to be restored from backup, the same Time Machine and Duplicity
tools that were used to create the backups can be used.

Restore/snapshot

Time Capsule creates periodic snapshots of your critical data and backs it up to
a specified location. Files can also be restored from Time Machine’s backup
images. In order to do this, open Time Machine, locate the target data by time,
and choose Restore.

Mac Tools – Restore/Snapshot Snapshots allow you to restore your Mac to previous
points in time • Similar to Windows System Restore • You can roll back to a
previous point in time • Combine Snapshot with Time Machine • Snapshots are
automatic, and created when system updates are installed • It’s possible to
create a manual snapshot • You can restore to a snapshot by  o Rebooting your
Mac o Choose the Recovery option o Choose to Restore from Time Machine 

=== Image recovery Image Recovery

In MacOS, the Disk Utility can be used to create and restore disk images. The
images are files that can be mounted and behave like a disk. Or it can be
restored to a physical disk. Linux distros have multiple solutions;
gnome-disk-utility comes with Ubuntu under the Disks name.

Image recovery

In a worst case scenario, Time Machine can also recover and restore a complete
system. Hopefully, there are many recovery images to choose from. Holding the
Command key and R during boot will show the recovery option menu. From there,
the system can be restored from a Time Machine Backup, the system’s OS can be
reinstalled, the user can ask for help online, or the system will open up the
Disk Utility.

Mac Tools – Image Recovery To access Mac Utilities • During boot, hold down the
Command + R keys • The Utilities window will come up 
 
• Choose  o Restore from Time Machine Backup (restore from a back up, if you
have one) o Reinstall macOS (reinstalls the operating system) o Disk Utility
(repairs or erases a disk) • Newer computers can try to connect to an Apple
server and download recovery files over the internet • If neither the Utilities
nor the Internet recovery will function o Download a macOS Installer from the
Apple website o Create installation media  Connect a flash drive to another Mac
 Run T Type the command sudo /Applications/Install/ macOS/
Mojave.app/Contents/Resources/createinstallmedia --volume /Volumes/MyVolume (for
Mojave) • Replace Mojave with the name of the operating system that you
downloaded  The command will create a bootable installer on the USB 

=== Disk maintenance utilities Disk Maintenance Utilities

Disk Utility in MacOS and Disks in some Linux distros can be used to check the
disks for errors.

Disk maintenance utilities

On a Mac, these are primarily accessed through the Applications folder by
choosing Utilities > Disk Utility. Although there are other methods of accessing
Disk maintenance, this is the recommended way. These tools are used to
partition, erase, or format a disk. This utility can also be used to write
zeroes to the free space on the drive.

In First Aid, the disk itself can be verified and the disk permissions can be
verified or repaired. Other disk utilities can be accessed in the operating
system. The trash can be emptied using the Trash icon in the Finder. The amount
of free space can be viewed by Clicking About this Mac and accessing the Storage
menu.

Be aware of your disk capacity and the amount of space you are using. Utilities
such as Time Machine will ensure that your disk is never full by deleting the
oldest backup image and by maintaining a minimum of at least 15% free space.

Disk maintenance utilities are not generally required in Linux. fsck (file
system check) can be run periodically in order to make sure everything in the
file system is in order. Routine tasks, such as cleaning up temporary files, are
automatic in Linux distributions. There are downloadable maintenance packages
that can be run, however, these are more relevant to servers than workstations.

Mac Tools – Disk Maintenance Utilities To access Disk Maintenance • Reboot the
Mac • During booting, hold down the Command + R keys • Choose Disk Utility o
Select the disk you want to repair o Choose “First Aid” o The Disk Utility will
scan the drive and repair any errors 

=== Shell/Terminal Shell/Terminal

While MacOS and most Linux distros come with a convenient GUI, they provide a
command line interface that may be useful for system commands and tools that are
not available in the GUI. Some Linux and MacOS commands are listed in the Basic
Linux Commands section of this guide.

Shell/Terminal

A shell provides an environment for users to interact with the operating
systems. This interaction can be in the form of a command prompt that uses a
command interpreter to process input. This interaction can also be graphical, in
the case of Windows, Linux, or Mac based GUIs.

Mac Tools – Shell/Terminal • Similar to Command Prompt on Windows • Runs on a
UNIX shell • Run Terminal from Finder • Details about commands are explained
later 

=== Screen sharing Screen Sharing

Remote screen sharing and access can be enabled and configured via the System
Preferences and Sharing menu. For Linux GUI, a popular method of screen sharing
is using the VNC protocol and software.

Screen sharing

Screen sharing in Macs is performed in much the same way as it is for Windows
Remote assistance. Screen sharing is enabled on a Mac in System Preferences >
Sharing. Screen sharing options are available in addition to file, print,
remote, Internet, and Bluetooth sharing options.

Mac Tools – Screen Sharing Can share your Mac screen with another Mac • Similar
to Remote Desktop on Windows • Enable Screen Sharing by choosing System
Preferences from the Apple menu o Choose Screen Sharing o Add users who are
authorized to access the screen o Sign in to iCloud if necessary • Connect to
the Mac o Check Finder Preferences o Choose the remote Mac from the list o You
must be signed in to the same iCloud account on both Macs 

=== Force Quit Force Quit

If an application becomes unresponsive and needs to be closed, you may need to
force quit. It will terminate the application and you will lose unsaved work. It
can be accomplished by selecting the application and pressing the quit button in
the Activity Monitor in MacOS or Task Manager in Ubuntu.

Force Quit

Force Quit can be used if your Mac is not behaving as expected. Click the Apple
menu and choose Force Quit. The key combination Command – Option – Esc can also
be used to activate Force Quit and is the equivalent to Ctrl + Alt + Del in
Windows.

Mac Tools – Force Quit Fore Quit allows you to exit a program that is stuck •
Hold down Option + Command + Escape • The Force Quit window will pop up 
 
• Select the app you want to close from the list, and choose Force Quit 

== Features Features

MacOS comes with many features that are unique compared to other operating
systems. It’s important to understand these features so that you can get the
most out of using a Mac.

Features


=== Multiple desktops/Mission Control Multiple Desktops/Mission Control—Mission
Control is a program that allows you to view everything that is open and also
quickly swap between programs. Mission Control also allows you to create
multiple desktops (called Spaces) that you can use to organize what you are
working on.

Multiple desktops/Mission Controls

This is a Mac’s process for creating multiple open “Spaces.” Mission Control
allows for multiple desktops to be created. This is accomplished by opening
Mission Control with the Control + Up Arrow. At first, one thumbnail window will
appear at the top of the workspace. Dragging an open window up and to the right
of the initial Space will create a second thumbnail or Space. The user can
switch between the multiple desktops by hitting Control and the Right or
  Left-directional arrows.

Mac Features - Multiple Desktops/Mission Control Mission Control allows you to
view all open windows at the same time Multiple ways to cccess Mission Control •
Swipe up with three or four fingers on your Multi-Touch trackpad or Magic
Trackpad.  • Double-tap the surface of your Magic Mouse with two fingers.  •
Click Mission Control in the Dock or Launchpad.  • Press the Mission Control key
on your Apple keyboard or press Control–Up Arrow.  • In OS X El Capitan, drag a
window to the top of the screen.  It’s possible to have multiple desktops (known
as spaces) • Each desktop can have multiple windows and programs • For example,
you might have one desktop for work, one for school, and one for entertainment •
The different desktops are shown at the top of the screen (you can switch
between desktops) 

=== Key Chain Keychain—The Keychain feature in Mac operating systems is a tool
used for password management. Items that can be stored in Keychain include
passwords, private keys, certificates, and secure notes.

Keychain

Keychain is the MacOS password management system. Keychain can manage passwords
and credentials for the local machine, wireless network, email, and now iCloud.
Keychain can automatically synchronize passwords when they are changed for the
main login.

Mac Features – Key Chain The Key Chain keeps track of usernames and passwords •
You can choose to save usernames and passwords in the keychain • When you first
enter a username/password into a website or app, Mac will prompt you to store it 
 
• Websites and apps can automatically store tokens and certificates in the
keychain 

=== Spot Light Spotlight— Spotlight is a search feature on Mac operating
systems. It creates an index of all the items and files on your system so you
can look up items quickly.

Spotlight

Spotlight is the MacOS search feature which has been upgraded to include
location sensitive search results. Fundamentally, Spotlight is a search utility
that can help find files or folders that are lost or forgotten locally as well
as any content on the web if connected.

Mac Features – Spot Light Spot Light allows you to find items on your Mac •
Choose the spoltlight icon from the top right bar 
 
• You can search for items on the computer and/or items on the internet,
including o Weather forecast o Definitions o Calculations o Measurement
conversions 

=== iCloud iCloud—The iCloud program comes default on all Apple products. It is
used as a method for storing data in the cloud. This is beneficial as a backup
method for Mac users.

iCloud

iCloud provides online storage and is available to anyone with an Apple ID. On
an OS X device, the iCloud drive will appear with your regular drives and the
folder structure can be fully manipulated. iPhones and iPads can sync content
but cannot modify the file structure.

Mac Features – iCloud iCloud backs up your data to an iCloud account • iCloud is
installed on every Apple device • iCloud syncs data between all devices signed
in with the same Apple ID 

=== Gestures Gestures—Apple gestures are small motions that a user can make
using the trackpad to complete simple tasks. For example, to move between pages
of a document, swipe left or right with two fingers. All of the gestures for Mac
devices can be found under system preferences, then by selecting trackpad.

Gestures

Gestures can be used on a touchscreen or touchpad. Let’s consider the touchpad
example here.

Example gestures are described below. A right (or secondary) click can be
performed by tapping on the lower right hand side of the touchpad. Scroll up or
down the screen by swiping two fingers up or down on the touchpad. Zooming in is
performed by touching the pad with two fingers and moving your fingertips apart.
Zooming out is performed by pulling your fingertips together. Swiping can
produce a variety of results depending on the direction of the swipe and number
of fingers used. For example, scroll through a photo album by swiping left or
right with two fingers. Swiping up with three fingers launches Mission Control.

Mac Features – Gestures Gestures allow you to access different features •
Gestures work on the Magic Trackpad or on a normal mouse (limited functionality
on a mouse) • On the Magic Trackpad 
 
 

=== Finder Finder—The Finder is the default file manager for Mac operating
systems, similar to the FIle Explorer program in Windows. Finder allows users to
search for files, open files, and delete files from one location.

Finder

Finder is the file manager for OS X and is comparable to File Explorer in
Windows.

Mac Features – Finder The finder is the file manager • Similar to Windows
Explorer • Allows you to launch apps, view files and view disks 

=== Remote Disc Remote Disc—The remote disc feature allows smaller Mac devices
that do not have a disc drive to essentially “borrow” the disc drive of a nearby
device. It allows the computer without the disc drive to access the files on a
disc that is being used on another device.

Remote Disc

Remote Disc allows access to shared optical drives on Windows or Mac machines.
Remote Disc also allows connection of external Apple USB Super Drives.

Mac Features – Remote Disc Allows you to share a CD-ROM/DVD drive with another
Mac (or Windows Computer).  You can view files stored on a CD-ROM/DVD that is
inserted into the optical drive of another Mac (or Windows computer) • Useful if
your Mac doesn’t have an optical drive • Doesn’t work for CDs/DVDs that contain
movies or other copy-protected data o Install the DVD Sharing Update (on a
Windows machine)  Choose DVD Sharing from the Hardware menu in the Control
Panel Access the CD-ROM/DVD o No further steps are required Insert the
CD-ROM/DVD into the optical drive o It will automatically be available on any
other Mac connected to the same network 

=== Dock Dock—The dock in MacOS is similar to the taskbar in Windows. It is the
launching pad for all applications on Mac operating systems.

Dock

The dock is a bar that runs across the bottom of the screen on MacOS machines
and contains application shortcut icons. The dock contains a default set of
applications that can be launched by clicking or tapping them. If a program is
used frequently, you may want it added to the dock. This is accomplished by
dragging the desired application’s icon down from Launchpad to the dock. Items
can be removed from the doc by dragging them out to free space on the desktop,
waiting for the “remove” option to appear, and releasing the icon.

Mac Features – Dock The dock shows common files and programs • Shows the last
three recently opened apps • Click on an app icon to open it • Drag a file over
an app icon to open the file with the app (for example drag a Word document over
the Word icon to open that file in Word) • You can add an app to the dock by
dragging it there • You can remove an app from the dock by dragging it off the
dock • You can rearrange the order of the apps on the dock by dragging them 

=== Boot Camp Boot Camp—Boot Camp is a utility that comes built into Mac devices
and lets users switch between MacOS and Windows operating systems.

Boot Camp

Boot Camp is the OS X utility that allows Windows to be installed and run on a
Mac. Disk space will need to be allocated for the Windows installation. Windows
can be installed from an ISO image of the Windows OS or from a bootable USB
drive that has the necessary files. After installation, the system will be dual
boot capable and can boot to OS X or Windows.

Mac Features – Boot Camp • Allows you to install Windows on your Mac •
Recommended to have 128GB of free disk space • To install Windows o Download
Windows as a disk image (ISO) o Open Boot Camp Assistant o Create and format a
partition for Windows o Install Windows • To switch between Windows and Mac, you
must reboot the computer • A better, third-party program that allows you to run
Windows is called Parallels o Allows you to run Windows and macOS at the same
time o Allows you to run specific Windows programs on the macOS without having
to run the full version of Windows (which could occupy significant system
resources) 

== Basic Linux commands Basic Linux Commands

To be successful in using Linux operating systems, you will need to be familiar
with at least the most basic Linux commands. Being able to navigate the Linux
terminal using these basic commands will be very beneficial. It’s important to
note that Linux commands are case sensitive, so take note of the case you are
using when typing them.

Basic Linux commands

Let’s look at some of the Linux commands you’ll need to understand and use in
order to navigate a Linux environment. The following commands can be executed at
the Terminal window or shell prompt.

Basic Linux commands  macOS is based on Linux • Includes a terminal (similar to
a command prompt) • The terminal runs a UNIX shell, which accepts Linux commands
(other operating system shells are available however) • As with Windows
commands, each command could have several options • Some commands include === ls
ls—The ls command is known as the “list” command in Linux. This is because the
command will list all of the files or folders in a given directory. In order to
use this command, navigate to the folder or directory you’re interested in and
type “ls”. After hitting enter, a list of all the files and folders in that
location will be displayed.

ls

The ls command, when used without modifiers, displays a file listing of the pwd
(present working directory). Adding the –l modifier provides additional
information regarding the files contained in the directory.

ls Lists all the files in a directory (similar to dir in Windows) 
 
 


=== grep grep—The grep command stands for global regular expression print. The
grep command is a search command. You can use it to search for a string of
characters within a file or standard text output. For example, if you are
viewing a file in the terminal and type the command grep “unix”, the terminal
will display all of the instances of the word “unix” in that file.

grep

Provides search capabilities within files.

grep Search for text (as a regular expression) Can search inside files 
 


=== cd cd—The command cd stands for change directory. This is very similar to
the change directory in Windows. You can type cd .. (note that there is a space
between cd and the two dots) and you will move back one directory from where you
are. If you use the command cd /, you will go all the way back to the root
directory, which is known as /.

cd

cd stands for “Change Directory” and changes from the PWD to a specified target
directory.

cd Change directory to a different directory (same as cd in Windows) Type cd
directory name or cd.. to move up one level 
 


=== shutdown shutdown—The shutdown command is used to turn the device off. If
you use the command shutdown by itself, it will notify all logged in users, log
those users off, and then turn off the system. You can also use the shutdown
command to restart the computer by using the -r flag on the command. (Example:
shutdown -r)

shutdown

shutdown halts the system. A time value to wait and a message before performing
the action can be set here. For example, Shutdown –h +15 “Please logout now.
System will shut down in 15 minutes” can be entered in order to set a waiting
time t and to show a message.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

shutdown Shuts down the computer 
 


=== pwd vs. passwd pwd vs. passwd—While many people see the term pwd and think
“password,” it actually means something very different in Linux. The command pwd
stands for present working directory, and it will display the full path of the
current working directory. So, if pwd doesn’t change the password, then what
command does? The command to change passwords in Linux is the passwd command.
This command can be used by typing passwd followed by the username that needs
its password reset. If no username is specified, it will change the password for
the current user.

pwd vs. passwd

This is a source of confusion for new users. Pwd is the present working
directory (not password) while passwd is the file that tracks every registered
user that has access to the system. The user name and User ID (UID) are stored
in passwd as well as the encrypted password. This information can be found in
the Shadow file.

pwd vs passwd pwd prints the name of the working directory passwd allows the
user to change his password 
 

=== mv mv—The mv command in Linux is the move command. This command allows a
user to move a specified file to another location. Move would be similar to a
cut and paste in Windows.

mv

Moves a file or renames it if the source and destination are the same directory.
Example usage is mv <source> <destination>

mv  Moves or renames a file or directory Type mv oldfilename newfilename to
rename a file from oldfilename to newfilename 
 
Type mv oldfilename newlocation to move a file from its current location to
newlocation 
 
=== cp cp—The cp command in Linux stands for copy. Its functionality is similar
to that of the move file, except that it places a copy in the new location while
still leaving the file in the original location.

cp

cp is used to copy a file. The source and destination for the operation must be
identified.

cp  Makes a copy of a file 
 
Type cp filename newfilename to make a copy of filename called newfilename (in
the same directory) 
 
Type cp filename newlocation to make a copy of filename in newlocation directory 
 

=== rm rm—The rm command stands for remove in the Linux operating system. This
is similar to a delete functionality, as it removes the file, directory, or
other various objects from the location.

rm

rm is used to delete or remove files at the command line.

rm  Deletes a file or directory Type rm directoryname to delete a directory 
 

=== chmod chmod—To modify Linux file permissions, you must use the chmod
command. Before changing Linux file permissions, it’s important to first
understand how they are represented. Each permission is represented by a letter,
as shown here: r: The read permission, w: The write permission, x: The execute
permission.

chmod

chmod changes the mode of files and directories, making them more or less useful
by changing the permissions. The permissions consist of d, if the object is a
directory, and r-x-w which correspond to read , write, and execute. These
permissions are applied to the owner, group, or other users.

chmod  Changes file permissions In UNIX, a file has three sets of permissions •
Read: view the file • Write: change the file • Execute: run the file The
permissions are represented by a three- digit code The owner of a file, or the
administrator can change permissions Type chmod permissioncode filename to
change a file’s permssions 
 

=== chown chown—While the chmod command changes the permissions, the chown
command changes the ownership of a file, directory or other objects.

chown

chown is used to change the owner or group of a given file.

chown  Changes the owner of a file or directory Type chown newowner filename
where newowner is the name of the new owner and filename is the filename 
 
=== iwconfig/ifconfig iwconfig/ifconfig—The ifconfig command in Linux is very
similar to the ipconfig command in Windows. The ifconfig command is used to
display networking information of the Linux device such as IP address, DHCP
address, and MAC address. The iwconfig command is similar to ifconfig, but it
strictly looks at the wireless interface.

iwconfig/ifconfig

iwconfig/ifconfig are network configuration commands. Ifconfig modifies any
value associated with the Ethernet card (eth0). Iwconfig changes values
associated with wireless network interfaces.

iwconfig/ifconfig iwconfig allows you to configure wireless interfaces ifconfig
allows you to configure ethernet interfaces 
 


=== ps ps—The ps command in Linux will display all of the currently running
process and their process numbers. The ps command stands for process status.

ps

ps is process status. This command will display running commands and their
Process ID (PID) by the current user. Using ps -aux will display running
commands for all users.

ps Lists all the running processes (similar to Windows task manager) Lists the
process name and ID 
 

=== su/sudo su/sudo—The su command stands for switch user (or substitute user).
The su command can be used by adding a username that you wish to switch to after
the command (example: su linuxuser1) or it can be used by itself, which will by
default switch it to the root user. Sudo will switch the user for a single
command, while su will switch the user until it’s switched back.

su/sudo

su stands for substitute user and is used to change from the current user
account to another account. A good example of this would be su root which is
used to change to the root user. su mine is used to switch back to the mine
account.

sudo

sudo permits a substitute user to “do” a command. By default the sudo user is
the super user.

su/sudo su allows you to run a command as another user Requires the password of
the other user Type su username 
 
sudo allows you to run a command with the security privileges of another user
You don’t need the other user’s password, but your account must have permission
to execute the command If you type sudo username command, you can run the
command as username If you type sudo command, with no username, sudo will run as
the superuser 
 

=== apt-get apt-get— APT stands for advanced packaging tool. The apt-get command
is a tool for handling packages in Linux. It is used to retrieve packages from
authenticated sources for installation, upgrade, and removal of packages, along
with their dependencies.

apt-get

apt-get is used at the command line interface to retrieve, install, or remove
packages in Linux.

apt-get Allows you to download packages (applications) Type apt-get
applicationname 
 

=== vi vi—The vi command is short for visual editor. The vi tool is the default
text editor that comes with Linux systems.

vi

vi opens the vi text editor. vi has two modes of operation: insert mode, which
allows text to be added or inserted into a file, and Command mode, which is used
to take action on a file.

vi Runs the vi text editor



=== dd

dd—The purpose of the dd command in Linux systems is to copy a file then convert
and format it according to the operands. DD stands for data duplicator.  dd

dd is the built in “data duplicator” for Linux. It can be used to back up data
to drives, CDs, or DVDs.

dd Can duplicate data across multiple devices (similar to robocopy on Windows)
Can also wipe a disk 
 
=== kill kill—In Linux, the built-in command to terminate a process is the kill
command. The kill command can be used to terminate a process using the name or
PID.


kill

Halts a program or process.And that concludes A+ 220-1002 Sub-objective 1.9.
You’ve now completed the first main objective domain of 220-1002!!
Congratulations! Keep it up! Good luck on the exam!

kill Ends a process Type kill processid 


