Physical Security

When thinking about cybersecurity, it’s sometimes easy to forget what an important role physical security plays in keeping digital data safe. Physical security is important because no matter how many security measures you put in place on a device itself, physical security is the only thing that will stop a criminal from walking away with the entire device.

Mantrap— A mantrap is exactly what it sounds like. It’s a trap used to prevent infiltration methods such as tailgating and piggybacking. A mantrap is a small area with a set of two locked doors and it separates the outside world from a secured area. When entering, an individual will enter through the first door, but that door must then be closed behind them before the second door may be opened.

Badge reader— Badge readers can be implemented to help prevent unauthorized access. In this type of environment, employees are given badges such as proximity cards or smart cards. When the employee scans the badge, he or she is allowed entry to the area.

Smart card— Smart cards are cards that are typically the size of your driver’s license or credit card. The embedded memory and chipset in these cards can store identification and authentication information. A smart card can also be programmed to use as a cash card that is seen in many organizations where employees may use their employee badge to purchase lunch in an onsite cafeteria.

Security guard— Security guards are one of the few security controls that are considered not only preventative controls, but also deterrent controls and detective controls. This is because organizations with onsite security staff are less likely to be targeted for attacks than those with no security guards.

Door lock— Door locks should always be utilized whenever possible. Aside from locks preventing unauthorized entrance to the building, locks should also be utilized to protect rooms containing sensitive equipment (such as the server room or network closet).

Biometric locks— Biometric locks can add an additional layer of protection to an organization’s physical security. Smart cards and proximity badges can be lost and possibly wind up in the wrong hands. Biometric locks use an individual’s features, such as their retina or fingerprints, to authenticate them.

Hardware tokens— A hardware token is a physical device that stores authentication information. One example of a hardware token is an RSA key fob. These hardware tokens randomly generate numbers that can be paired with usernames and passwords for added security.

Cable locks— Cable locks can be used to help prevent a thief from walking off with laptops. A cable lock is used by looping the cable around a heavy (preferably immovable) object and then securing the lock to a small security hole on the side of the laptop.

Server locks— Due to their important role within organizations, servers should never be left vulnerable to a physical attack. Not only should the server room be locked when not in use, but the rack in which the servers are located should also be locked.

USB locks— Many attacks can be delivered via an unsecured USB port on a server, laptop, or desktop. USB locks are small locks that plug directly into open USB ports and prevent unauthorized access.

Privacy screen— Privacy screens are screen covers that go on your phone, tablet, monitor, or laptop screen. These screens make it very hard to see what is happening on the screen unless you are sitting directly in front of it. This prevents shoulder-surfing, which is the act of spying on another person’s screen to collect information.

Key fobs— Key fobs are small security devices that store authentication information.

Entry control roster— An entry control roster is a document kept by a security guard that has a record of all the individuals who have entered and left the building. This is often used in conjunction with mantraps.
Logical Security Measures

Unlike physical security controls that you can see and touch, logical security controls are items such as security policies and software safeguards that are used to protect our systems. You should be able to explain these.
Active Directory

Active Directory (AD) is the Microsoft® directory used to manage users, applications, computers, and much more. AD can be used to help implement security measures across your organization.
Login Script

A login script can be thought of as a series of instructions given for a device to perform upon login. Login scripts can be set on the profile tab of a user in AD. Login scripts can be used to map network drives, log computer access, gather information from a computer, and much more.
Domain

Ensuring that all computers in an environment are in your domain helps to ensure that they will be given the proper security policies. When a computer is in your domain, you’ll be able to see it and manage it within AD.
Group Policy/Updates

Group policies can be extremely useful in securing an organization. Group policies can be used to set password policies, block unwanted applications, and even block access to the Internet entirely in some cases. They can also be used to push out security updates, which are important to keep an organization safe.
Organizational Units

Organization units (often referred to as OUs) are subdivisions of your domain within active directory. For example, if the organization ACME Corp had three separate locations, they may choose to have three organizational units within their domain.
Home Folder

A home folder can be set for each user in AD. If the home folder doesn’t exist when it’s added in AD, then AD will create the folder and set the permissions for you. By default, this folder can be accessed only by the user and the domain administrators. Home folders should be used by folders to store their files on the server. Because computers can be lost or stolen, it’s best for users to store their documents on the server in this way rather than store them locally on their own machines.
Folder Redirection

Folder redirection allows administrators (and in some cases users) to redirect the path of a specific folder to a new location. One popular implementation of this is to redirect a user’s Documents folder (that is stored locally on his or her machine) to a network location, such as the Home folder.
Other Methods

There are other methods to ensure security. Here are some of them.
Software Tokens

Software tokens are similar to hardware tokens, except they come in the form of either a piece of software on your laptop or an app on your mobile device.
MDM Policies

Mobile device management (MDM) policies are used to enforce security measures on mobile devices such as cell phones and tablets. Many organizations require that their users access email or other business related apps on their phone, but this can present security risks to the organization. MDM policies can help offset some of the risk. An example of an MDM policy would be an organization requiring anyone accessing business email or business apps to have a lock screen on their phone with a PIN.
Port Security

To prevent unauthorized devices from forwarding traffic, port security should be used. There are a number of different options when implementing port security. For example, you can define the maximum number of MAC addresses that can be used on the port.
MAC Address Filtering

MAC address filtering, or simply MAC filtering, is a method in which only devices with specific MAC addresses are able to send data on the network. If a device tries to connect to a network and it doesn’t have one of the agreed up on MAC addresses, it will not be permitted to join the network.
Certificates

Digital certificates help users know when they are accessing a trusted website. Digital certificates are signed by a trusted certificate authority (CA). The CA can ensure that the public key you are getting from a website is actually from the web server and not an attacker.
Antivirus/Anti-malware

Users should never be allowed to browse the Internet without an antivirus/anti-malware program. While it’s important to note that antivirus and anti-malware programs are not able to prevent all malware, they do prevent a large number of attacks.
Firewalls

Firewalls should be used by organizations as a first layer of defense for their networks. Firewalls come in many different types including packet filtering firewalls, proxy firewalls, and stateful inspection firewalls. At the most basic level, firewalls allow for the creation of rules, known as access control lists, which specify the types of packets that are allowed and disallowed. Firewalls come as both hardware and software devices. They can be standalone or part of another network device such as a router or a switch.
User Authentication

User authentication is the cornerstone of any organization’s security. Physical security and firewalls won’t help you if a user’s password is Password123. Security policies that enforce users to choose strong passwords should be created. Many organizations now require users to choose passwords that are at least 12 characters and contain both symbols, numbers, and multi-case letters.
Multifactor Authentication

Even the strongest passwords can be compromised. This is where multi-factor authentication comes in. Multi-factor authentication (commonly referred to simply as MFA) requires two or more different authentication types. Authentication types are typically broken down into categories such as something you know (password, PIN, security question), something you have (authenticator, token), and something you are (biometrics). Because MFA requires two or more different types of authentication, a user would not be able to use just a PIN and a password, since they both fall into the category of something you know. Rather, the user would need a combination such as a password and a token.
Directory Permissions

Not all users within an organization should be given access to all data that the organization has stored. For example, a customer service representative will most likely not require the same level of access as the Chief Information Security Office (CISO). In order to restrict users from accessing data they should not see, directory permissions should be used. Directory permissions allow administrators to control what level of access a user should be given on a per directory level. Some of the permission types include full control, modify, and read.
VPN

Virtual private networks (VPNs) are extremely useful for organizations that allow users to work remotely and also multi-location organization. For organizations where employees work remotely, it can be set up so that a user is able to connect securely to the organization’s network via a client VPN. For organizations that have multiple locations, site-to-site VPN tunnels can be configured to expand the network across all of these locations.
DLP

Data loss prevention (DLP) is the practice of preventing unauthorized data from leaving an organization. Sensitive data can be leaked either intentionally or unintentionally. Regardless of the cause, the ramifications can be severe. DLP methods can’t prevent data loss entirely, but they are used to reduce the chances of data leakage wherever possible. .
Access Control Lists

Access control lists are used to specify which traffic should be allowed through a firewall and which traffic should be blocked. Using access control lists, traffic can be blocked or allowed based upon a number of items including source or destination port as well as source or destination IP address.
Smart Card

Smart cards are typically the size of your driver’s license or credit card. The embedded memory and chipset in these cards can store identification and authentication information. Smart cards can also be programmed to use as a cash card that is seen in many organizations where employees may use their employee badge to purchase lunch in an onsite cafeteria.
Email Filtering

Spam is a common way to spread malware. Even when spam doesn’t contain malicious links and attachments, it still clutters up user inboxes, making them less productive. Organizations can reduce the amount of spam received by implementing an email filter. Email filters can review messages both inbound and outbound. In some cases, email filtering can also check outgoing email messages for sensitive data, therefore helping with DLP.
Trusted and Untrusted Software Sources

Because end users may not be as well-versed in what programs are legitimate and which are not, software installations should always be reviewed by an administrator. A user may believe they are downloading a trusted program, but it could turn out to be malware. By disallowing user installations and requiring administrator approval, this scenario is less likely to occur.
Principle of Least Privilege

Permissions should only be given to a user if they absolutely need them to complete their job. This idea is known as the principle of least privilege. The fewer users who have access to sensitive files, the less likelihood that something will happen to those files.



Wireless Protocols and Authentication

Wireless networks are inherently less secure than wired networks. However, there are several methods that can be used to secure wireless networks.
Protocols and Encryption

WEP— Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) was one of the first attempts at securing wireless networks. WEP should not be used today because it contains a flaw that makes it very vulnerable to attackers.

WPA—Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) is a more secure option than WEP, as it used TKIP.

WPA2— Wi-Fi Protected Access 2 (WPA) improved upon WPA by using the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES). WPA2 is the standard that should be used today for securing wireless networks.

TKIP— The Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP) provides a new encryption key for every sent packet. TKIP helped improve WPA and make it more secure than WEP, but it was found that TKIP also has its own vulnerabilities.

AES— AES, which stands for Advanced Encryption Standard, is a secure encryption method that is still used today. WPA2 uses AES in order to secure wireless networks.
Authentication

Wireless networks should never be left open, and they should always require some form of authentication. Let’s look at a few wireless authentication methods.

Single-factor— Single-authentication requires that the user only provide one form of authentication. It’s common to see wireless networks that only require a pre-shared key to join the network. This is an example of single-factor authentication, and it is considered to be a weak authentication method.

Multi-factor— Multi-factor authentication requires a user to provide more than one authentication type as discussed earlier in this study guide. A common implementation of multi-factor relating to wireless authentication is the Extensible Authentication Protocol-Transport Layer Security (EAP-TLS), which requires the user to not only have a password but also a certificate installed on the computer.

RADIUS— Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) is an authentication method used to allow for centralized authentication and accounting. Although it gets its name from the days of dial-up Internet, RADIUS is now the common method used to authenticate over VPNs and wireless networks.

TACACS— TACACS and TACACS+ were originally developed by Cisco®, but were released as an open standard. These protocols are used for the authentication of users on network devices such as routers and switches.
Malware (scenario)

To succeed on questions about malware, you should be able to evaluate a given scenario, find malware, and remove it with effective tools and procedures. You should also know how to prevent malware in the future.
What Is Malware?

The term malware is used to describe any malicious software that includes (but is not limited to) trojans, spyware, viruses, and worms. Let’s take a deeper look at some of the different types of malware that exist today.
Ransomware

Ransomware was given its name because it essentially holds your files and data ransom until you pay the attacker. As the popularity of cryptocurrency (such as bitcoin) has grown, so has ransomware. This is because now attackers can request bitcoin as their method of payment to release the data after a ransomware attack making the attackers more difficult to track down.
Trojan

Trojans are malicious programs that disguise themselves as valuable programs. Imagine a scenario where a user downloads a program that they believe will allow them to listen to music or watch a movie for free. They download the program because they believe it to be a valuable and legitimate program. However, when they go to run the program, they have actually installed malware on their device. This is an example of a trojan.
Keylogger

Some attacks will try to install keyloggers onto a user’s computer in order to steal private data, passwords, or credit card numbers. Keyloggers come in both hardware and software forms. A keylogger will track all of the keystrokes made on the computer running the keylogger. This information can then be transmitted over to the attack for them to parse looking for useful stolen information.
Rootkit

Rootkits are malicious programs with the goal of gaining privileged access to a computer. Rootkits hide themselves by taking advantage of operating system functions, and they can attack operating systems, hypervisors, and firmware.
Virus

A virus is defined as any malicious program that replicates itself and attempts to infect other computers. Viruses, unlike worms, need human interaction to spread. They are only able to replicate to other drives on the same computer and not across the network. Viruses could have many different goals from corrupting data to stealing information.
Botnet

When an attacker gains full control of a system and they plan to use that system to carry out other attacks (such as a DDOS attack), that computer becomes a bot. The infected computer is essentially a zombie, as it’s no longer under the control of its owner, but rather it is under the control of the attacker. A botnet is a large group of these bot computers that can be used to carry out various attacks such as sending spam or performing a denial-of-service attack.
Worm

A worm is similar to a virus. The feature that separates a worm from a virus is that a worm can replicate itself without any user intervention.
Spyware

Spyware is a type of malware that covertly collects data on a user after it is installed on their computer.
Tools and Methods
Antivirus

Many threats described above can be mitigated simply by having an antivirus program installed. Antivirus is made up of two main components, the antivirus engine and the antivirus database. The antivirus engine is responsible for real-time scanning. The antivirus definitions database is a repository of signatures used to detect known malware.
Anti-Malware

Anti-malware software is extremely similar to antivirus, but it takes the detection a step farther. Anti-malware software can usually check files outside of the windows file systems such as those on malicious websites and those coming in via email.
Recovery Console

Windows offers a suite of built in recovery tools known as the Windows® Recovery Console. This console can be especially helpful if a computer has been infected by malware. Some of the tools in the recovery console will allow you to reset the operating system back to default or simply restore the computer to an earlier time (such as before the computer become infected.)
Backup/Restore

Sometimes, an attack occurs and the only way to resolve the issue and remove the risk is to completely wipe the computer and start fresh. When this happens, users may lose all of their data on the hard drive. Losing data can be a huge burden for an organization. This is where backup/restore comes in. Important files should always be backed up. In cases of ransomware, files may be encrypted and deemed unusable. Rather than pay the attacker to restore your data, you could simply reformat those devices and restore the data that you have backed up.
End User Education

While there are plenty of wonderful tools out there to help protect against attacks, end user education is one of the most important. This is because antivirus software and spam filters are not perfect. It is important for users to understand what types of items they should download and not download, what types of websites they should not visit, and how to identify a phishing scam.
Software Firewalls

When referring to software firewalls in this section, we are referring to firewalls that come as part of the operating system. Windows® computers come with a built-in software firewall called Windows® Defender Firewall. This firewall can help prevent against worms and malicious inbound connections.
DNS Configuration

One way to prevent users from navigating to malicious URLs is to implement a filtered DNS service. When filtered DNS is configured and a user tries to access a malicious URL they will receive a page stating that the content is not reachable due to a policy that was put in place.
Social Engineering, Threats, and Vulnerabilities

You should be able to compare and contrast different types of threats, social engineering, and vulnerabilities when taking this test. Following are details about these issues.
Social Engineering

Social engineering is the fraudulent act of manipulating individuals into giving you unauthorized access to a building or room, or giving you private information.

Phishing— Phishing is the most common type of social engineering. In a phishing attack, the attacker sends a fraudulent email pretending to be from a legitimate source such as a colleague, vendor, or even a user’s bank. The goal of a phishing attempt is to get the unsuspecting user to give up their private information.

Spear Phishing— A spear phishing attack is a targeted phishing attack. In most phishing attacks, the phishing email will be sent out in bulk hoping to get users to bite. In a spear phishing attack, the attacker has done research on the target and has crafted a phishing email specifically for them.

Impersonation— One common social engineering tactic is impersonation. Social engineers will often pretend to be someone else to gain access to what they are looking for. One example of this would be an attacker pretending to be from your Internet provider asking for access to your network closet.

Shoulder Surfing— Shoulder surfing is the act of stealing a person’s data by looking over their shoulder as they type in private information on a computer or a code into a door or ATM.

Tailgating— Social engineers will sometimes “tailgate” or follow another person into a building. This means sneaking into a locked door right behind a person who has permission to enter. Sometimes, the social engineer may carry boxes so that an individual, who is just trying to be polite, will unlock and hold the door open for them.

Dumpster Diving— Businesses and individuals throw away a lot of valuable information that can be used by an attacker. When an attacker digs through the trash hoping to find private information that wasn’t shredded, this is known as dumpster diving.
Other Concepts and Considerations
DDoS

A distributed denial of service (DDOS) is a denial of service attack in which multiple computers (often a botnet) are used to send an abundance of traffic in an attempt to bring down a network’s resources.
DoS

This refers to a denial of service attack in which a large amount of meaningless traffic is sent in an attempt to overburden and bring down a device or network.
Zero-Day

A zero-day attack is one that targets a vulnerability for which developers have not had time to release a patch for or fix yet.
Man-in-the-Middle

A man-in-the-middle (MiTM) attack is an eavesdropping attack. The attacker will try to plant himself/herself between two systems and intercept the traffic.
Brute Force

In a brute force attack, the attacker will attempt to guess as many of the possible values as they can. Brute force is generally used as a method of password cracking, but can be used in some other scenarios as well.
Dictionary

One form of a brute force attack is known as a dictionary attack. Rather than the attacker trying to come up with passwords to guess themselves, they can use a list of all leaked passwords online (known as a dictionary) and try them instead.
Rainbow Table

A rainbow table is a database of a plaintext passwords and their corresponding hash values. This can be used in a brute force attack.
Spoofing

Spoofing is a form of an impersonation attack. Some commonly spoofed items include source IP address, source MAC address, source email address, and usernames.
Non-Compliant Systems

Non-compliant software or systems can pose a threat to an organization’s network. It’s important to fix non-compliant devices as soon as you notice them.
Zombie

A zombie is another word for a bot. This is a computer that has been taken over by an attacker and can be used for malicious activities.



Microsoft Windows® OS Security

Microsoft Windows® provides useful settings that can be used to enhance security. It is important that you know their names and how they are used.
Users and Groups

As mentioned previously, users will not all require the same level of access control. Windows® permissions is a critical part of access control.

Administrator— Administrator accounts should be reserved for those who absolutely require them. The more administrators that exist on a network, the more room for error. An administrator will have access to everything.

Power user— A power user account is one step down from an administrator account. It is the second most powerful account type within the Windows® operating system.

Guest— The guest account on Windows is an account that exists on every Windows® machine. It’s a very low-privilege account that can be used for individuals who only need occasional access to the device.

Standard user— Most users will fall into the standard user category. A standard user will have varying permissions based upon roles and groups set by the administrator.
NTFS vs. Share Permissions

NTFS should be used whenever possible as it will provide the most control over data resources. NTFS is the New Technology File System. The advantage of using NTFS permissions over share permissions is that they are applied to both local users and network users and that they are based on the permissions granted to an individual user at the Windows® logon. Share permissions are not applied to users who log in locally to the machine.
Allow vs. Deny

It’s possible to allow and deny access to individual resources. Generally, deny permissions will take precedence over allow permissions. Also, permissions that have been added directly to an object will override inherited permissions.
Moving vs. Copying Folders and Files

When a file is moved or copied, permissions propagation is the process that Windows goes through to decide which permissions should be applied to files that were moved or copied. It is important to remember that just because a folder has been moved or copied to a new location, it will not always inherit the new location’s NTFS permissions.
File Attributes

It’s possible to encrypt individual files and folders on a computer using the Encrypted File System (EFS) that is built into professional versions of Windows. This can be done from the Advanced Attributes dialog box for the files and folders.
Shared Files and Folders

Sharing files and folders can be an easy way to collaborate with others. However, it’s important to be aware of the security concerns that come along with it.
Administrative Shares vs. Local Shares

Windows has some shares that are built in by default. These shares are known as administrative shares. These shares, such as C$, are built in to allow administrators access to these resources despite how they are accessing them (locally or remotely). On the other hand, any share that is created manually is known as a local share.
Permission Propagation

When files or folders are copied or moved, Windows has to go through the process of determining which permissions should be assigned to them in their new location. This process is known as permissions propagation. There are many factors that influence this process, such as whether the file is being copied or moved and whether this is happening within one NTFS-based volume or between two NTFS-based volumes.
Inheritance

Rather than needing to specify permissions on each and every file and folder, administrators can configure inheritance. Inheritance allows files and folders within another folder to inherit the permissions of the top level folder.
Other Topics
System Files and Folders

A system file or folder is an object which Windows or some other program has deemed crucial to the overall function of the operating system. These files will have the system attribute toggled on.
User Authentication

Users may authenticate in a number of different ways to access a company’s resources. Single sign-on is one method of authentication in which the user only needs to authenticate once to have access to all of the resources.
Run as Administrator vs. Standard User

When a user wants to run a program that requires an administrator to run, they’ll receive a UAC (user access control) pop-up. This pop-up will request an administrator password before the program will run. UAC can be beneficial as it forces an administrator to approve a program before it is run or installed. This can come in handy when users who are not particularly tech savvy try to download or run programs that might end up being malicious.
BitLocker®

BitLocker® is a program that offers full drive encryption. It is available on Windows Ultimate® and Enterprise® versions as well as Windows 8/8.1 Pro®. Unlike EFS, which encrypts individual files, BitLocker® encrypts the entire drive. BitLocker® relies on the computer having a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) chip to function.
BitLocker To Go®

BitLocker To Go® is an encryption method like BitLocker® that allows you to encrypt removable/portable drives such as external hard drives and USB drives. Unlike the full version BitLocker® , BitLocker To Go® does not require a TPM chip.
EFS

The Encrypting File System (EFS) is a feature that is available in professional versions of Windows. EFS makes it possible to encrypt individual files and folders with just the click of a button. EFS can be configured in the Advanced Attributes dialog box of a file or folder.
Workstation Best Practices (scenario)

During the test, you will need to be able to take a given scenario about a workstation and develop appropriate security measures on a “best practice” level to optimally secure that workstation. Here is some information concerning this.
Password Best Practices

Passwords are one of the first lines of defense against an attacker. It’s important to set strong and memorable passwords.
Setting Strong Passwords

There are many different opinions on what constitutes a strong password. The definition will most likely change depending on who you ask. The standard rule, however, is at least eight characters, containing letters, numbers, and symbols.
Password Expiration

Users should be required to change their password at regular intervals. This is enforced using a password expiration policy. Common intervals are every 30, 60, or 90 days.
Screensaver Required Password

For individuals who use screensavers, it’s a good idea to set a screensaver password. This will require a password to reenter your computer after the screensaver has come up. The screensaver then becomes similar to locking the computer.
BIOS/UEFI Passwords

BIOS/UEFI passwords can be set to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized access to the BIOS configuration.
Requiring Passwords

Passwords should always be required. The user should never be able to access his or her computer without using a password. The requirement of passwords, as well as the password expiration and password complexity, should be specified in a password policy.
Account Management

Administrators are in charge of ensuring the security of workstations using various policies.
Restricting User Permissions

Organizations should always use the Principle of Least Privilege. This means that users should only be given access to the resources that they need in order to complete their jobs and nothing more. Having strong permissions helps to prevent unauthorized access whether intentional or accidental.
Logon Time Restrictions

If your organization only has users working between certain hours of the day (for example: between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.), one good security restriction to put in place is logon time restrictions. It’s possible to put policies in place that restrict users from logging into a computer outside of their normal working hours.
Disabling Guest Account

The Guest account on Windows® machines is a low-privilege account for guest users. If this account will not be used, it’s best to immediately disable it. Even though it is a low-privilege account, attackers have ways to escalate privilege if they are given access to a machine.
Failed Attempts Lockout

A common way to combat brute force password attacks is to implement a lock out policy. After so many failed attempts at logging in, the account will become locked out and an administrator will have to unlock it.
Timeout/Screen Lock

Leaving a computer unlocked while you are away is dangerous. Any person can come up and begin working on your computer without your knowledge. For this reason, organizations should implement screen lock or screen timeout policy. This policy would force the computer to lock after a few minutes of inactivity.
Change Default Admin User Account/Password

Default passwords should never be used in any circumstances. It’s best to immediately change default passwords or disable default accounts all together and create new accounts.
Basic Active Directory Functions

Active Directory Users and Computers (ADUC) is a great place to manage user accounts. Let’s look at some basic functions of ADUC.

Account creation— When creating an account in ADUC, you can configure the account with many different options. You will have to create the password. You can choose to force the password to be changed upon the first login.

Account deletion— Organizations should have a policy to delete old accounts when they are no longer needed.

Password reset/unlock account— When a user believes that a password has been compromised (or has been forgotten), the password may be reset from Active Directory. You can also unlock an account that has been locked out from Active Directory.

Disable account— Sometimes it is a better choice to disable an account, rather than delete it. For example, if an organization has seasonal employees, they may choose to disable the seasonal employee’s credentials while they are off season rather than delete the entire account.
Disable Autorun

Certain programs or discs will run immediately when put into the computer. It is best practice to disable the autorun and autoplay features on the operating system. This is because it gives you time to evaluate the item before allowing it to run on the PC.
Data Encryption

Data encryption, whether through BitLocker®, EFS, or another method, is a great way to protect your data. Data encryption ensures that your data is protected in the event of a lost or stolen computer.
Patch/Update Management

Operating systems and other software push out updates or patches whenever vulnerabilities that need to be fixed are found. It’s crucial to a computer’s well-being that these patches are installed. Organizations will typically use some third-party program for patch and update management.



Mobile Device Security (scenario)

Mobile devices have become an important part of business as we know it. Employees are expected to be available at all times via their phone. But with the new wave of mobile devices in business, organizations must consider the risks.
Screen Locks

When a user has access to business resources via a mobile device, it’s necessary to ensure that the mobile device is just as secure as a workstation would be. This means having a lock on the screen so that if the phone is lost or stolen, attackers don’t have access to the business resources.

Fingerprint lock— One method of screen locking is a fingerprint lock. Fingerprint locks use biometrics. In order to access the phone, the user must scan his or her fingerprint.

Face lock— A face lock is another form of biometrics. Essentially, the screen is able to recognize the user’s features and only unlock if his or her face is visible.

Swipe lock—Swipe locks use a pattern created by the user to lock the screen. The individual must know the pattern to unlock the device.

Passcode lock— Finally, one of the most common screen lock options on a mobile device is the passcode lock. The passcode is usually 4 to 6 numbers. The individual must know the code to unlock the device.
Remote Actions

Often, a user must consent to give the organization remote administration over their mobile device if they want to be able to access the organization’s resources from their mobile device.
Remote Wipes

Organizations are able to remotely wipe devices after they were given remote administration control. This is useful if a user reports that their phone has been lost or stolen.
Remote Backup Applications

Some organizations may choose to remotely backup the mobile devices that store data. Because mobile devices are typically used during travel, they are more likely to be lost or stolen.
Locator Applications

Locator applications can help individuals find their devices if they have been lost or stolen. These applications use GPS technology. The location services on the device must be turned on for these applications to work.
Authentication

Authentication is just as important on mobile devices as it is on standard computers and laptops. Let’s look at some of the types of authentication.
Biometric Authentication

Biometric authentication is a common method for securing mobile devices. Biometrics include items such as face scans, fingerprint locks, and retina scanners.
Multi-factor Authentication

Multi-factor authentication (MFA) can be used to access applications on mobile devices in the same way that it’s used to protect data on computers. MFA requires at least two different types of authentication. For example, when MFA is in use, an individual may be required to use a password and an authenticator app.
Authenticator Applications

Early in this guide we discussed hardware authenticators. Usually, hardware authenticators come in the form of tokens that are only used for authentication. However, mobile devices can also be used as an authenticator. They are more convenient because then users are not required to carry multiple devices for authentication.
Other Methods
Failed Login Attempts Restrictions

In the same way that you can lock a user’s account on a computer, you can lock an account on a mobile device. Mobile devices should lock the ability to log in after so many failed attempts.
Antivirus/Anti-Malware

In the same way that you would protect your computer from viruses and malware using antivirus and antimalware software, you can download mobile antivirus and antimalware applications. There are not as many providers for mobile antivirus and antimalware as there are for computers but the market is growing.
Patching/OS Updates

Whenever an update is available for a mobile device, it should be installed. Applications on the phone should also be kept up to date. When vulnerabilities are found, developers will put out updates to fix the vulnerabilities. This is why devices must be kept up to date.
Full Device Encryption

Mobile devices can also be encrypted to protect the data that is stored on the device. This adds another layer of protection in the case that the device is lost or stolen.
Trusted Sources vs. Untrusted Sources

Software and applications can come from trusted sources or untrusted sources. Users should never download applications from untrusted sources. An application of this sort may be a malicious program disguised as a useful one.
Firewalls

A mobile firewall acts as a screen between mobile devices and an organization’s network. It will monitor all inbound network traffic before it is allowed to access the network system.
Policies and Procedures

Policies should be put in place by an organization so that users understand exactly how to use mobile devices on the organization’s network.

BYOD vs. corporate-owned— Corporate-owned devices are completely under the control of an organization. In this scenario, the organization can specify policies about which applications can be installed as well as what the device can be used for. However, many organizations are moving to a Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) environment. BYOD environments are most complicated to manage because while policies can be put in place for accessing corporate resources, ultimately the device is owned by the end user.

Profile security requirements— When accessing an organization’s resources, users must meet all profile security requirements set forth by the organization.
Data Destruction and Disposal (scenario)

As discussed earlier in this guide, dumpster diving is a method of obtaining private information or data from the trash. Let’s look at how to properly dispose of computer equipment.
Physical Destruction

One of the only ways to ensure that data is no longer accessible is to completely destroy it.

Shredder— To prevent dumpster divers from stealing private information, organizations should have a shredding policy in place to shred all documents before throwing them in the trash.

Drill/hammer— Destroying a hard drive with a drill or hammer is one of the only ways to ensure that an attacker is unable to retrieve data from the device.

Electomagnetic (deguassing)— Using an electromagnet is one way to wipe a hard drive. However, it’s often still possible for individuals to pull data off of a hard drive even though it’s been wiped. One wipe using a magnet is not enough. This process must be done over and over again.

Incineration— Some organizations may choose to completely incinerate their devices to ensure that data can not be pulled off of the devices.

Certificate of destruction— When an organization uses a third party vendor to dispose and destroy their devices, they may receive a certificate of destruction stating that the items have been recycled and all data storage components have been wiped or destroyed pursuant to all applicable laws including environmental and waste management regulations.
Recycling or Repurposing

Rather than destroy the devices, many organizations will take the route of recycling or repurposing the devices.
Low-Level Format vs. Standard Format

A standard format simply removes all of the data from the device. This should not be used in the event that the device contained extremely sensitive data as it may be possible to retrieve the old data with the right equipment.
Overwrite

An overwrite would simply be completely reformatting the device with a new operating system.
Drive Wipe

There are many different tools that can be used to wipe a drive such as software and magnets. It’s important to always wipe a drive multiple times to ensure that the data is not easily retrieved.
Wireless and Wired SOHO Security (scenario)

It will also be important for you to be able to consider a scenario about a Small Office/Home Office (SOHO) and devise best practice security measures for that environment, whether it is wired or wireless.
Wireless-Specific

There are some security measures specific to wireless networks. Let’s take a look at some of these items.
Changing Default SSID

Keeping the default SSID can provide a potential attacker with information they need to target you. For example, the default SSID may show exactly what type of wireless device you are using. It’s best to change the SSID before you begin using the wireless network.
Setting Encryption

Setting wireless encryption secures your wireless network with an authentication protocol. Wireless encryption will require both a password and an encrypted key when you connect. The encryption key can generally be located in the setup page of a wireless router.
Disabling SSID Broadcast

Disabling the SSID is one way to prevent attackers from finding your wireless network. It adds a few extra steps for getting yourself and other users connected to the network, but it does add that additional layer of protection. Experienced hackers will still be able to locate hidden networks, but generally attackers go after the low hanging fruit.
Antenna and Access Point Placement

Ideally, when setting up a wireless network, you want the network to span your entire building or workspace, without leaking outside of your organization. It’s a difficult task to do perfectly, but this can be achieved by doing wireless network surveys and ensuring that your antennas and access points are placed in the right locations.
Radio Power Levels

By lowering the radio power levels, you can ensure that the wireless device isn’t broadcasting the signal well outside of the necessary range for you organization.
WPS

WPS , which stands for Wi-Fi Protected Setup, was created to make setting up wireless networks easier for the average user. However, it has a built-in flaw that makes it extremely vulnerable to attacks. It is best practice that, if you purchase a wireless router with WPS, you should immediately ensure that it is turned off.
Additional Actions
Change Default Usernames and Passwords

It is very easy to do an online search and find the default usernames and passwords of wireless devices. When setting up a wireless network, ensure that the default passwords are not being used.
Enable MAC Filtering

MAC Filtering is the concept of only allowing specific MAC addresses to connect to the wireless network. By only allowing specific MAC addresses to connect, you are able to prevent unauthorized devices from connecting as well. While this can reduce the likelihood of an attack, it is possible for attackers to spoof a MAC address so it’s not a perfect solution.
Assign Static IP Addresses

It is generally a good idea to set a static IP address on your wireless router so that, in the event of an Internet outage or power outage, the IP address will not change when the device is back online.
Firewall Settings

Many wireless routers today have built-in firewalls. These settings can be configured in the management console of the device.
Port Forwarding/Mapping

Port forwarding/mapping can be configured on a wireless device in the same way that it can on a wired network.
Disabling Ports

Disabling ports that are not in use on the wireless router can prevent unauthorized parties from plugging in and gaining access to the entire network.
Content Filtering/Parental Controls

Some wireless routers will come with built-in content filtering and parental controls. These can be used to block users from navigating to sites that could contain malware.
Update Firmware

Just like any other device that we’ve talked about, the firmware on a wireless device should be kept up to date. Whenever the latest updates are not installed on a device, that device is susceptible to attacks.
Physical Security

Physical security of wireless devices is just as important as the physical security of wired devices. While it may not be feasible to lock all of the wireless access points in the server room, the devices should be locked down so that an unauthorized individual can’t access them.


