= 2.10 – Given a scenario, configure security on SOHO wireless and wired networks.
== Wireless-specific
=== Changing default SSID
=== Setting encryption
=== Disabling SSID broadcast
=== Antenna and access point placement
=== Radio power levels
=== WPS
== Change default usernames and passwords
== Enable MAC filtering
== Assign static IP addresses
== Firewall settings
== Port forwarding/mapping
== Disabling ports
== Content filtering/parental controls
== Update firmware
== Physical security


Wireless and Wired SOHO Security (scenario)

It will also be important for you to be able to consider a scenario about a Small Office/Home Office (SOHO) and devise best practice security measures for that environment, whether it is wired or wireless.
Wireless-Specific

There are some security measures specific to wireless networks. Let’s take a look at some of these items.
Changing Default SSID

Keeping the default SSID can provide a potential attacker with information they need to target you. For example, the default SSID may show exactly what type of wireless device you are using. It’s best to change the SSID before you begin using the wireless network.
Setting Encryption

Setting wireless encryption secures your wireless network with an authentication protocol. Wireless encryption will require both a password and an encrypted key when you connect. The encryption key can generally be located in the setup page of a wireless router.
Disabling SSID Broadcast

Disabling the SSID is one way to prevent attackers from finding your wireless network. It adds a few extra steps for getting yourself and other users connected to the network, but it does add that additional layer of protection. Experienced hackers will still be able to locate hidden networks, but generally attackers go after the low hanging fruit.
Antenna and Access Point Placement

Ideally, when setting up a wireless network, you want the network to span your entire building or workspace, without leaking outside of your organization. It’s a difficult task to do perfectly, but this can be achieved by doing wireless network surveys and ensuring that your antennas and access points are placed in the right locations.
Radio Power Levels

By lowering the radio power levels, you can ensure that the wireless device isn’t broadcasting the signal well outside of the necessary range for you organization.
WPS

WPS , which stands for Wi-Fi Protected Setup, was created to make setting up wireless networks easier for the average user. However, it has a built-in flaw that makes it extremely vulnerable to attacks. It is best practice that, if you purchase a wireless router with WPS, you should immediately ensure that it is turned off.
Additional Actions
Change Default Usernames and Passwords

It is very easy to do an online search and find the default usernames and passwords of wireless devices. When setting up a wireless network, ensure that the default passwords are not being used.
Enable MAC Filtering

MAC Filtering is the concept of only allowing specific MAC addresses to connect to the wireless network. By only allowing specific MAC addresses to connect, you are able to prevent unauthorized devices from connecting as well. While this can reduce the likelihood of an attack, it is possible for attackers to spoof a MAC address so it’s not a perfect solution.
Assign Static IP Addresses

It is generally a good idea to set a static IP address on your wireless router so that, in the event of an Internet outage or power outage, the IP address will not change when the device is back online.
Firewall Settings

Many wireless routers today have built-in firewalls. These settings can be configured in the management console of the device.
Port Forwarding/Mapping

Port forwarding/mapping can be configured on a wireless device in the same way that it can on a wired network.
Disabling Ports

Disabling ports that are not in use on the wireless router can prevent unauthorized parties from plugging in and gaining access to the entire network.
Content Filtering/Parental Controls

Some wireless routers will come with built-in content filtering and parental controls. These can be used to block users from navigating to sites that could contain malware.
Update Firmware

Just like any other device that we’ve talked about, the firmware on a wireless device should be kept up to date. Whenever the latest updates are not installed on a device, that device is susceptible to attacks.
Physical Security

Physical security of wireless devices is just as important as the physical security of wired devices. While it may not be feasible to lock all of the wireless access points in the server room, the devices should be locked down so that an unauthorized individual can’t access them.


Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! If you have been following up to this point, with A plus 1002 Sub-objective 2.10 you’ve reached the final sub-objective in Domain 2.0 of the CompTIA A+ Exam Objectives statement. In this section, we will look at the steps that can be taken to secure a wired or wireless network. We will begin by examining the elements of a network that are exclusively related to wireless networks. Next, we will discuss issues that are common to both wired and wireless networks. Enjoy!

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002
Wireless specific

Wireless networks are filled with potential security compromises. The network signal can be detected by anyone with the hardware. Often, casual non-malevolent users can be seen driving around until they pick up a signal from an open wireless network so they can check their email! This is a possibility since the access point’s owner may not recognize the compromise. In addition, an open wireless network can be a free service offered by a retailer or other service provider such as a CATV provider that also offers Internet. Based on the service agreement, the Cable-provider owned router and wireless equipment may provide a hotspot on the device.
Changing default SSID

The Service Set Identifier (SSID) serves as the network name for the wireless (WiFi) network. The default SSID is set at the factory and should be changed during initial configuration of the network along with assignment of a new password. All devices on the WiFi network must be able to identify this device and must take the steps necessary to access it. This includes the password, channel number, and encryption.
Setting encryption

Encryption makes traffic unintelligible to outsiders and insiders who don’t have the public key. Since being paired with 802.11x wireless traffic, encryption methods have continuously evolved to stay ahead of threats. Wireless encryption began with WEP (Wireless encryption Protocol) which used a 40-bit key that was quickly compromised. WEP was later upgraded to a 128-bit key however it was still vulnerable.

WPA (Wi-Fi Protected Access) was an interim solution implemented to address the shortcomings of WEP. WPA can be used on legacy hardware, requiring only software or firmware upgrades, and can be combined with additional encryption standards such as TKIP (Temporal Key Integrity Protocol). WPA2 is a more secure implementation of WPA that can use both TKIP and the more advanced AES (Advanced Encryption Standard). The only drawback of WPA2 is that users of legacy wireless interfaces will have to upgrade in order to use AES. When configuring a router, it is wise to implement WPA2 with TKIP and AES in order to allow devices that cannot support AES to fall back to TKIP.

In the image below, observe that based on the operating system and the hardware, the encryption types available will vary.

Encryption Types by System
Disabling SSID broadcast

By default, the router is configured to transmit its SSID every few second during a process called broadcasting. It is recommended that this feature be disabled for the purpose of network hardening since half of the SSID/Passphrase security element will be provided otherwise. This is seen in the image below on a Dual Band router using the 2.4 Ghz and 5.0 Ghz frequency bands. The passphrase is obscured.

SSID and Passphrase
Antenna and access point placement

The placement of the wireless access point and the wireless antenna are often overlooked by users since bandwidth is prioritized and other important issues, such as eavesdropping and interference, are often ignored. Interference occurs where two or more WAPs/Routers create overlapping but dissimilar transmission ranges. Regarding eavesdropping, consider that wireless devices are two-way radios with varying coverage areas which depend on the 802.11 protocol used and the physical environment.  Envision a circular area, representing the effective range, which extends from the WAP or Router. By picturing this circular area, it is easy to visualize why an access point should be placed in a location where it can reach all the required locations in the space.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

It is usually best to place the WAP or Router in the center of the desired area since this will provide comprehensive coverage and will reduce the possibility of compromise from outsiders. A WAP or Router placed in a corner or close to a wall will make only ¼ or ½ of the range available to the users. If the WAP or Router is placed adjacent to another business entity or family, the remainder of the range is “bleeding” (escaping) into unintended areas, making them subject to compromise. Also in an office or apartment building with multiple access points, signals can overlap each other, likely causing interference on both networks. The judicious placement of wireless transmission devices reduces the probability of both security and operational issues while providing the required coverage.

Radio power levels

In addition to carefully selecting the location of the WAP or Router, control the size of the coverage range by adjusting the power of the transmitting radio. This simple step will help avoid the pitfalls of having wireless data subject to compromise.
WPS

In order to streamline the wireless setup process and help the less technically-inclined user establish wireless connections, the WPS (Wi-Fi Protected Setup) standard was implemented. This standard reduces the time and effort required to perform an initial connection, or recover a lost connection, down to a simple push of a button. Once initiated, WPS puts the WAP/router into WPA Personal or WPA2 Personal security mode and briefly makes the SSID and Passphrase (Key) available.
Change default usernames and passwords

All network hardware such as routers, switches, and WAPs utilize usernames and passwords (passphrases) to authenticate users and allow configuration of the devices. Since the device needs to be setup for immediate use, the factory sets default username/password combinations that are widely known and easily compromised. Combat this by changing these values immediately. Shown below is a wireless gateway with the default username displayed. In this case, it’s “admin” which is not an effective configuration to put it mildly. Before you decide that administrator is better, please try again!

Default username
Enable MAC filtering

Every network device is assigned a globally unique 48-bit hexadecimal MAC (Media Access Code) address embedded in the firmware. The uniqueness of this address, better than IP addresses, makes it a very specific method of blocking or permitting the device. In most cases, allow devices in a specific IP address range in order to manage traffic on a specific subnet.
Assign static IP addresses

In the vast majority of cases, IP addresses are assigned automatically by DHCP. This protocol provides noticeable savings in time and effort while efficiently managing and assigning addresses from the available address pool. DHCP addresses may change periodically and keep in mind that address changes do not have any impact on performance. Some devices such as Web, File, and Print servers need to have a permanent network address in order to reliably provide its particular service.  The image below shows a static IP address assigned to a Document Server.

Static IP
Firewall settings

Firewalls are a crucial component in a solid network defense strategy. When configuring a firewall, set the level as strict as possible on the hardware and then test the system and applications for proper operation. Software firewalls, such as Windows Firewall or from a third-party protection suite, can then be configured. This is shown below.

Using the Norton Firewall, the Specific UDP (DHCPV6-in) rule was selected to Modify as seen in the top window. In the second window, the rule behavior is allowed to be changed to Block, Monitor, or Allow.

Modify Firewall Rule
Port forwarding/mapping

Port forwarding or mapping allows inbound IP addresses and port numbers to be redirected on the internal network. This setting allows the firewall to change the ports and addresses used by a service to any other available port and address in order to foil attackers. In the screenshot below, TCP/UDP is allowed to specifically assign Port 21 to the common FTP service (No change). The port and address can be forwarded to any available port/address combination.

Port Forwarding
Disabling ports

After remapping or forwarding a port/address combination, traffic on the previously configured port/address can be disabled.
Content filtering / parental controls

Parental controls or content filters restrict specific traffic based on keywords, URLs (Domains), or the time of day. Parental Control settings can also allow Trusted IP addresses (The Parents) to access the restricted content at will.

Parental Control
Update firmware

It is possible that the access device may not support the speeds that are expected or may not have new features from the service provider, regardless if it is wired or wireless. In these cases, the device manufacturer may have updated firmware in order to increase performance and/or implement new features. Firmware upgrades are also provided to address problems with the device. In all of these cases, be absolutely sure that the make, model, serial number of the device has been recorded. Be absolutely sure that the manufacturer’s instructions regarding the firmware upgrade process is clearly understood. Failure to follow the instructions could render the device inoperative.

Firmware updates are a one-shot deal and there is no “undo.” Unless you have the time and money to acquire a replacement device, read the instructions carefully! Obtain the new firmware from the manufacturer ONLY. DO NOT obtain firmware from the Play Store, Windows Store, or App Store and certainly do not obtain it from a freeware download site. Read the instructions again and perform the upgrade slowly and deliberately. There will only be one chance. Shown in the screenshot below is most of the information that will be needed to perform the firmware update.

Information for update
Physical security

We covered almost everything, however one critical point remains. We have dealt with security, configurations, and updates but not the physical security of the devices. Make sure that your equipment is safe from malicious parties and even troublemakers who may push a button to see what it does! It can happen.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002

Avoid placing equipment in public areas or locations where a guest’s or employee’s contact with the equipment can’t be controlled. Hardware should be in an area protected by a badge, key, or combination lock where only authorized personnel can enter. Always place equipment in a room with a locked door and limited access. Well, that will do it for objective 2.10 and that concludes the entire Domain 2.0. Congratulations are in order and it’s downhill from here. Good luck on the test! 
