= 2.5 Summarize the properties and purposes of services provided by networked hosts.



You need to have a working understanding of the properties and purpose of
network-delivered services in a client-server environment and know how to
summarize them. Know the difference between a client application and a server
application. Client applications request services from a server application.

Welcome to ExamNotes by CertBlaster! Here we will look at some of the specific
services provided by network servers and other network hosts. We will examine
the purpose and properties of various servers, internet appliances, and legacy
systems.


== Server roles
Server Roles

You are expected to have a working understanding of the following network
services. A server is not necessarily a stand-alone piece of hardware. A server
is usually a process running in memory on a networked system that responds to
requests from a remote client system.

Server roles

Specialized servers are the key to efficient web content delivery for mail, file
print, addressing, and name services as well as user authentication. We will now
break them down.

Different roles of servers 
• 
A single physical server can have multiple roles or functions 
o The word “server” can refer to a physical device or to one of the roles that a
physical 
device fulfills 
• 
Virtualization technology can divide a single physical server into multiple
virtual servers, each 
of which can have a single or multiple role 
• 
If a large capacity is required, multiple servers can be clustered together to
provide a single 
role 
• 
An end user is typically not concerned with the hardware setup of the servers 
o When virtualized, a server admin may not be concerned with the hardware setup 
=== Web server
Web server—a web-based server that typically uses HTTP (hypertext transfer
protocol), or possibly FTP (file transfer protocol), to respond to requests from
a client

Web server

A Web server is used by companies to deliver web based content over HTTP. This
can be done privately, in the case of an internally accessed company webpage, or
publicly over the internet.

Web Server 
Hosts websites and website data 
Delivers website data to end users 
A web server may have processing technology 
such as ASP or PHP 
A web server may interact with a database 
server to provide necessary data 
Examples include Internet Information Server 
and Apache 
 
=== File server
File server—the repository of shared data files in a client-server model

File server

A File server is primarily used to establish a central location where users can
store and share content such as documents, media files, and spreadsheets. The
computer hosting the service is attached to the local network. An NAS (Network
Attached Storage) device is often used in this type of application. However,
this is not the same as an internet based file server which uses the FTP
protocol and is accessed using FTP client software.

File Server 
Hosts files for shared drives 
Can be a Network Attached Storage Device 
A file server will work with an authentication 
server to enforce permissions on the files 
Examples include Windows server 
 

=== Print server
Print server—a network attached device that manages print requests

Print server

A Print server is a network connected, shared device that manages and
distributes print “jobs” to the printers it controls. Users and administrators
can manage print jobs through the queue, which displays all jobs received by the
server and their status. A single user can manage their own jobs and an
administrator can manage all jobs. While print servers as computers are still a
part of many networks, stand-alone wired and wireless network based printers
exist that contain built-in print servers.

Print Server 
A print server manages printers and print 
queues 
The printers are installed on the print server 
The print server connects users with the printers 
When a user prints a document, it is queued on 
the print server 
 

=== DHCP server
DHCP server—dynamic host configuration protocol server used to assign the
necessary network parameters to hosts on a network, such as IP address and
subnet information

DHCP server

A DHCP server is responsible for delivering IP addressing and related
configuration information to its clients using the Dynamic Host Configuration
Protocol. This service has saved countless man-hours and address duplications.
The DHCP server uses an assigned address range, called a scope, in order to
provide addresses to hosts without duplication along with any other necessary
information such as subnet masks and gateway information. These addresses are
leased to the host for a predefined period of time, after which they are
refreshed or renewed.

A DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) 
server dynamically assigns IP addresses to 
devices on the network 
A DHCP server keeps track of the devices that it 
has assigned IP addresses to 
A router may provide DHCP server functionality 
 
=== DNS server
DNS server—domain name system server used to resolve a domain name into an IP
address

DNS server

DNS servers have made user interaction on the internet dramatically simpler. DNS
servers translate Fully Qualified Domain Names (FQDN) into IP addresses. Once a
server performs this translation, the translation information is stored in its
database for quicker access. The DNS (Dynamic Name Server) is joined to the
Dynamic Name System which allows it to consult with other DNS servers when
necessary. A new server will do this frequently but over time, less frequently
as it consults its local database first.

DNS Server 
A DNS (Domain Name Service) server converts 
domain names to IP addresses 
A DNS server keeps a cache of the most 
commonly requested websites 
A router may provide DNS functionality 
 

=== Proxy server
Proxy server—an intermediary device between the Internet and users; a dedicated
system that locally stores often used Internet sites; improves response time and
provides security

Proxy server

A Proxy server is a dedicated computer or network device that handles all
external requests made by users on the network. When the Proxy server receives a
request for a webpage, it checks its internal cache of previous requests and if
found delivers the content quickly, providing improved performance. If the
content is not cached, the Proxy will either connect to or act as a firewall and
perform private to public NAT (Network Address Translation). The Proxy is
capable of masking the client IP address, blocking specified traffic, and
filtering out malicious traffic.

Proxy Server 
A proxy server is an intermediate server 
between a user and other servers.  A user can 
make requests for websites, files, and other 
resources with the proxy server.  The proxy 
server will forward the requests to other servers 
and provide the user with their responses. 
A proxy server can provide anonymous access, 
content filtering, and data leak protection 
A firewall may provide proxy server functionality 
 

=== Mail server
Mail server—an application that acts as a message transfer agent (MTA) to send
and receive email on a network

Mail server

A Mail server can conceptually be considered an email server as it handles
email. Email is customarily sent using an email client software package, which
allows emails to be composed and sent. This same program will also check your
mail server for any inbound messages. There are two main types of mail servers:
incoming and outgoing. The outgoing server will use the Simple Mail Transport
Protocol (SMTP) to send traffic to other mail servers en route to the
destination. Delivery to the destination client is achieved using one of two
incoming server types: POP3 (Post Office Protocol 3) and IMAP (Internet Message
Access Protocol). To summarize, you send email using an SMTP configured mail
server and receive email using either a POP3 or IMAP server. These can be
separate servers or hosted on the same server.

Mail Server 
A mail server sends and receives e-mail on 
behalf of users 
A mail server can also store e-mails so that 
users can access them remotely 
Examples include Microsoft Exchange Server 


=== Authentication server
Authentication server—an application that provides authentication to users
attempting to log in to a network

Authentication server

An Authentication server is usually an application running on a server, such as
Active Directory for example. This internet or network appliance handles
authentication by providing a user, or device, access to designated resources on
the network as determined by the administrator.

An authentication server identifies users and 
provides them with access to resources 
Examples include Microsoft Active Directory 
Server 
 
=== syslog
syslog—a syslog server receives and stores syslog messages from network devices.
Syslog messages indicate events of different severities that may be used for
monitoring and troubleshooting.

Syslog

Syslog is a protocol that allows network devices to send TCP messages to a
Syslog server regarding network events such as logon/logoffs, errors, and
maintenance. The syslog server maintains a database of these devices and events
for use by administrators.

syslog 
Syslog is a standard for message logging 
A syslog server receives and stores log 
messages sent by other network dev


== Internet appliance
Internet Appliance

An Internet appliance is a physical device on the network that is purpose-built
to serve a single purpose. The most commonly used Internet appliances are
security devices.

Internet appliance

Internet Appliances 
• 
An internet appliance could be a dedicated physical device or could be a
software application 
that runs on a server 
=== UTM

UTM—Unified threat management is an all-inclusive network security appliance
that typically provides intrusion detection, anti-malware, firewall, and content
filtering.
UTM

The Unified Threat Management (UTM) is a way to reduce cost and administrative
overhead by combining multiple security features, such as router, firewall, and
content filters, into a single hardware appliance in order to protect the
network from unwanted or malicious traffic. The UTM is generally positioned
between the Internet and the protected network. Here is a look at some of the
possible elements.

UTM

Unified Threat Management 
 
A UTM device provides multiple security 
functions (instead of having several devices each 
providing a single function) 
Features could include 
• 
Firewall 
• 
Intrusion Detection 
• 
Intrusion Prevention 
• 
Anti-Virus 
• 
Proxy 
• 
Data Leak Prevention 
VPN

=== IDS

IDS—An intrusion detection system appliance monitors network traffic to detect
and alert on the presence of malicious traffic. IT uses signatures and
heuristics (analyzing traffic to determine abnormal behavior) to determine if
traffic is malicious.

IDS

The Intrusion Detection System (IDS) is one of the earliest network intrusion
monitoring devices and is often found as a feature of a UTM, router, and server.
It comes in two primary configurations, either as a network based NIDS, that
will monitor an entire network, or as a Host based solution HIDS, when
individual workstations have this capability. The IDS signals an alarm when
suspicious activity is detected. However, this solution lacks the capability to
block traffic.

Intrusion Detection System 
 
An Intrusion Detection System detects attacks 
that are already taking place inside the network 
An IDS only detects attacks, it does not prevent 
or block traffic 
 
=== IPS
IPS—An intrusion prevention system appliance works like an IDS, but rather than
just alerting on malicious traffic, it will also block it.

IPS

An Intrusion Protection System (IPS) takes the IDS concept and evolves it to
detect an alert condition before it enters the network and drops or blocks the
connection. This is an effective approach but is not a replacement for IDS. The
IPS is vulnerable to encrypted network traffic, making a layered approach the
optimum solution as opposed to “either or”.

IPS 
Intrusion Prevention System 
 
Prevents inappropriate content and 
unauthorized users from entering the network 
An IPS can slow down the network, accidentally 
block legitimate traffic, or create a large amount 
An IPS cannot monitor the content of encrypted 
traffic 
 

=== End-point management server
End-point management server—an appliance that provides a management console that
can monitor and control end-point devices. It is used to deploy and update
software on end-points. It may also monitor security settings and software such
as checking to see that antivirus is running and up to date on each end-point.

End-point management server

Endpoints are any devices, such as computers, tablets, smartphones, and laptops,
that require network access. The endpoint server inspects the endpoints to see
if they meet the established policy criteria before they can access the network.
  Endpoint condition includes the status of software updates/patches and
  anti-malware updates.

An end-point management server manages 
“end points” or end user devices 
Devices could include desktops, laptops, mobile 
phones, VoIP phones, and printers 
The server can enforce security policies, install 
software updates and monitor user activity 
== Legacy/embedded systems
Legacy/Embedded Systems

Legacy systems are older systems that for one reason or another have not been
updated. It is usually due to essential applications that will not run on the
updated platform. Embedded systems are devices other than computers that have
computer technology running within. Like legacy systems, these may not be able
to stay updated.




Legacy / embedded systems

When considering network servers and devices, remember that you will encounter
networks that are comprised of a mix of new(er) and legacy (= old) hardware. A
single computer hosting multiple services, such as file and print or web and
email, is not uncommon. Also, you will encounter services that are embedded in
the firmware. Many routers, particularly the consumer grade or SOHO designs,
have services such as DHCP and Proxy built in.

Legacy/Embedded Systems 
• 
Legacy systems are old systems that can’t be replaced 
• 
May provide a critical business function 
• 
Embedded systems are systems that are inside other systems 
