= 3.3 Given a scenario, install RAM types.

RAM (scenario)

You need to understand the different types of random-access memory and how to
install them.

When you are taking the CompTIA A+ Hardware exam 220-1001, you will need to know
the different types of RAM, their characteristics, and which types are
preferable for high-performance workstations and servers.
== RAM types
What is DDR RAM?

DDR stands for Double Data Rate and it is the standard RAM used in the majority
of PCs today. There are a few different versions of DDR RAM:

    DDR, which first appeared around 2000.
    DDR2, which doubled the performance of DDR, while using less power.
    DDR3, which doubled the performance of DDR2 while using even less power.
    DDR4, which offers higher clock speeds along with lower latency and power
    consumption.

The type of motherboard being used determines the type of RAM that can be
installed. Every DDR version has its own unique notched module shape, preventing
installation of DDR RAM on a motherboard that doesn’t support it.
DIMMs and SODIMMs

DDR RAM comes in two primary physical sizes: DIMMs and SODIMMs. DIMM stands for
Dual In-line Memory Module and SODIMM stands for Small Outline Dual In-line
Memory Module.

View of a Dual In-line Memory Module or DIMM (click to enlarge)

DIMMS are commonly used in desktop computers and servers while SODIMMS are used
in laptop computers.

Exam Tip: Remember this fact by using the mnemonic DIMMs for Desktops (D for D).

RAM Types 
Installation of RAM was covered in a previous section.  There are currently four
types of RAM 
DDR 
Double Data Rate 
2.1 GB/s transfer rate 

You can’t mix and match RAM types.  You must match the correct RAM with the
correct motherboard 

DIMM 
Dual in-line memory module 
The RAM above are DIMMs 
They are the standard width 
 
=== SODIMM
RAM Types
SODIMM

Small Outline Dual Inline Memory Modules are commonly found in laptops and come
in 100-, 144-, 200-, 204-, and 260-pin configurations. SODIMM defines the
physical form factor of the module.

SODIMM (click to enlarge)

SODIMM in its laptop memory socket (click to enlarge)


SODIMM 
Small outline DIMM 
SODIMMs are used in laptops 
They are half the width of normal DIMMs 
=== DDR2
DDR2

Double data rate (DDR) refers to the speed of data transfer. DDR2 and has less
power consumption and is faster than the original DDR RAM. It comes in 240-pin
DIMM and 200-pin SODIMM.

DDR2 
Double Data Rate Type 2 
4.2 GB/s transfer rate 

=== DDR3
DDR3

DDR3 is faster than DDR2 and has 30% less power consumption. It comes in 240-pin
DIMM and 204-pin SODIMM.

DDR3 
Double Data Rate Type 3 
8.5 GB/s transfer rate 

=== DDR4
DDR4

DDR4 is faster than DDR3 and has less power consumption. It comes in 288-pin
DIMM and 260-pin SODIMM.

DDR4 
Double Data Rate Type 4 
17 GB/s transfer rate 
 
== Single channel
Single Channel

A single channel RAM architecture moves data on a single data bus, typically
64-bits at a time.

RAM Channels

RAM channels refer to the level of communication between RAM modules and the
system’s memory controller. The greater the number of channels, the more RAM
modules the memory controller can access.

RAM Features - Channels 
The RAM channel is a feature of the system board, not the RAM.  A channel is a
line of 
communication between a system board and the RAM.  A dual-channel motherboard
has twice the 
communication speed of a single channel.  A triple-channel motherboard has three
times the 
communication speed of a single channel. 
Channels are available as 
• 
Single Channel (requires one RAM DIMM) 
• 
Dual Channel (requires pairs of RAM DIMMs) 
• 
Triple Channel (requires multiples of three RAM DIMMs) 
If you’re operating a Triple Channel system board, you will require at least
three DIMMs, or a multiple 
of three, such as six or nine. 
If you don’t have the correct multiple of DIMMs, then the system board will
revert to a lower channel.  
For example, if you install one DIMM in a Dual Channel board, the board will
operate as single 
channel. 
A system board will typically have color-coded DIMM banks.  In this example, we
have a dual-channel 
board.  RAM DIMMS in the green banks belong to one channel, and DIMMs in the
orange banks 
belong to the second channel.  If you have two DIMMS, install one in a green
bank and one in an 
== Dual channel
Dual Channel

A dual channel RAM architecture moves data on two data buses, typically 128-bits
at a time.

Most standard PCs are dual-channel compatible, meaning the motherboard has at
least two RAM sockets. Two identical RAM modules must be installed for
dual-channel functionality to work.


== Triple channel
Triple Channel

A triple channel RAM architecture moves data on three data buses, typically
192-bits at a time.

Triple-channel motherboards have at least three RAM sockets (or a multiple of
three) and require certain models of CPU such as the Intel Core i7 or Xeon
processor. There are also quad-channel motherboards with four RAM sockets (or a
multiple of four). Triple and quad-channel RAM systems are much more expensive
to build and are commonly reserved for very high-performance servers and
workstations.


== Error correcting
Error Correcting

Error Checking and Correcting (ECC) memory has logic built in to detect and
correct single-bit memory errors. For each byte (eight bits) of memory, a parity
bit is set that will allow the logic to detect and correct an error in a single
bit of each byte. The logic would not correct an error in any byte with more
than one bad bit.

Features – Error Correcting 
A RAM DIMM can be affected by electromagnetic interference, which could cause
some of the data 
to be changed.  This leads to corruption and undesired operation. 
RAM with error correcting capability 
• 
Used in specific applications such as healthcare, scientific, financial, and
multi-user servers 
(where an error could be disastrous) 
• 
Reduces the number of crashes 
• 
More expensive than non-error correcting RAM 
There are several ways to detect errors 
• 
Parity Bits 
• 
Checksums 
• 
Cyclic Redundancy Checks 
• 
Hash Functions 
Parity features 
• 
A bit contains eight bytes, which are 0’s and 1’s 
• 
For example, a byte could be 01010101 
• 
In a parity scheme, we want to keep the total of the bits even or odd. 
• 
For example, if we want the total to be even, we check the first seven bits.
If
the first seven 
bits are odd, we add a 1 to the end, and now the total is even. 
• 
For example, if the byte is 0101010, we have a total of 3, which is odd.  We add
a 1 to the end 
to come up with 01010101, which is a total of 4, which is even. 
• 
If our data becomes corrupted, and changes to 01011101, the total is 5, which is
odd.  The 
RAM error-handling mechanism is expecting an even total.  It knows that there is
an error in 
the byte. 
Checksum 
• 
A bit contains eight bytes, which are 0’s and 1’s 
• 
For example, a byte could be 01010101 
• 
The RAM could record the total of the byte, which is 4.  The total is the checksum 
• 
If the byte changes, then the total will change.  If the RAM notices that the
total doesn’t 
match, then an error will be detected. 
Cyclic Redundancy Check 
• 
More advanced mathematical formula 
• 
We apply the formula to our data to obtain an answer 
• 
If the data changes, and we reapply the formula, we will have a different answer 
o We will know that the data changed 
Hash Function 
• 
More advanced mathematical formula 
• 
We apply the formula to our data to obtain an answer 
• 
If the data changes, and we reapply the formula, we will have a different answer 
== Parity vs. Non-parity
Parity vs. Non-Parity

Memory with parity has logic built in to detect single-bit memory errors. For
each byte (eight bits) of memory, a parity bit is set that will allow the logic
to detect an error in a single bit of each byte. The logic may or may not detect
an error in any byte with more than one bad bit. While parity allows for the
detection of memory errors, it does not correct those errors. Additional logic,
such as ECC, would be needed for error correction.


Parity vs. Non-Parity

Older versions of RAM were available in parity and non-parity types. Parity RAM
has the ability to detect memory-based data errors (but does not correct them)
while non-parity RAM does not have this function.

Parity RAM was made largely obsolete by ECC RAM.
ECC RAM

Error-Correcting Code (ECC) RAM can both detect and correct memory-based data
errors. ECC RAM is commonly used in critical servers where data corruption
cannot be tolerated. ECC RAM is more expensive and requires ECC-supporting
motherboards and processors which are more expensive as well.
