= 3.7 Summarize power supply types and features.


Power Supplies

Power supplies convert AC power to the DC power that computer components run on.
There are different types of power supplies to fit different types of computers.
Each power supply has specific features related to capacity and connectors. You
must be able to select the proper power supply type and features needed in any
given scenario.


== Input 115V vs. 220V Input 115V vs. 220V

The input to a power supply is provided by the power company. This is the power
available at a wall outlet. In North America and some other parts of the world,
110 volts AC - 120 volts AC is supplied. Other countries supply 220 volts AC -
240 volts AC. So, power supplies are designed to accept either or both of these
inputs. You may find power supplies that accept only one or the other voltage,
but most accept both. Some have a switch to set for the correct input. Others
accept either input without having to set a switch.

Input 115V vs. 220V

When hooking up the power to your system, one of the main things you’ll notice
is that directly near the three-prong power connector is a small switch that
reads 115/230. This switch allows the PSU to accommodate international voltage
and allows you to provide the correct voltage to your PC.

Power supply 115V vs 220V • Canada, United States. Mexico, and many South
American countries use 120V electricity at 60 Hz • European and Asian countries
use 220V, 230V, or 240V electricity at 50 Hz • Electricity supplied by a wall
outlet is AC (Alternating Current).  That means that the electricity changes
direction 50 (50 Hz) times per second or 60 (60 Hz) times per second.  • A
computer requires electricity in DC (Direct Current) at +3.3 V, +5 V, and +12 V.
That means that the power supply must change the electricity and its voltage.  •
At the back of the power supply is an input voltage selector (the red switch) 
 
• A power supply has a Wattage rating (the number of Watts it can produce) o The
wattage required is typically around 300W for a basic computer, and up to 1000W
for a gaming computer • Calculate the power consumption of each computer
  component to determine the total power requirement (in Watts).  Select a power
  supply that is 40% more than the total power == Output 5.5V vs. 12V Output 5V
  vs. 12V

The power supply converts the AC power input to DC power that supplies the
computer’s components. Most power supplies provide +5V and +12V. Others may also
provide -12V, -5V, and +3.3V. You may see more than one connector for a specific
output. For example, you may see two +12V outputs, each with its own connector.
Each output is called a rail, so in this example, there would be two +12V rails.

Output of +3.3 V, +5 V, and +12 V • A power supply has multiple power outputs •
Each output is known as a rail • Older processors use 5V power, newer processors
use 12V power == 24-pin motherboard adapter 24-Pin Motherboard Adapter

Most power supplies provide DC output power on a standard 24-pin connector, also
called the ATX power connector, which plugs into the motherboard. The connector
is keyed so that it can only plug in one way, ensuring that the proper voltages
are supplied to the right pins. Specific pins are designated to supply +5V,
+12V, -12V, and 3.3V.

24-pin motherboard adapter

The main function of a power supply is to provide the correct amount of power to
the motherboard. The connection between the power supply and the motherboard has
evolved from a single connector into a two-part connector, the 20+4 pin
connector. This connector will supply the appropriate power to where it is
needed. In the image below, the white connector is the legacy connector and can
be compared to the newer 20+4 pin. On the newer 20+4 pin, the additional four
pins are free and can be moved over in order to provide an additional 12 volts
to the processor. Both connectors shown below are the main connectors to the
motherboard and operate at +3.3V, +/- 5V, and +/- 12V.

Motherboard power connectors: 20 (white) and 24 pin (black).

Output 3.5V, 5V and 12V

Here’s a look at the connectors you will find on an ATX power supply. Listed
first are the connectors that supply power to the drives and provide
supplemental power to the motherboard.

20-Pin Connector 
 
Connects Power Supply to Motherboard Provides +3.3V, +5V, and +12V 
 
 
 
 
It’s possible to connect a 20-Pin cable into a 24- Pin connector 
 
 
24-Pin connector 
 
Connects Power Supply to Motherboard Identical to the 20-Pin connector, with 4
additional pins added to provide more current.  The additional 4 pins can be
removed, which allows the device to connect to a 20-pin motherboard instead. 
 
 4-Pin Connector 
 
Provides power to CPU This is different from the 4-Pin connector in the 24-pin
connector 
 
 
 
 
8-Pin Connector 
 
Powers high-end graphics cards 
 
 
 
6-Pin PCIe Connector 
 
Powers PCIe cards 
 
 
 
== Wattage rating Wattage Rating

Wattage rating, or power rating, is the total capacity of the power supply. This
must be high enough to meet the total power demands of all components in the
computer.

• Wattage rating

Any discussion of a power supply will include wattage. For a power supply,
wattage is the amount of power that can be delivered to the system. When
selecting a power supply, ensure you are delivering the correct amount, i.e. an
amount that will support the sum of the components your system will have.
Different processor and memory combinations will have different power
requirements. Use an online wattage calculator to determine your needs, then add
on another 10% on top for power peaks.


== Number of devices/types of devices to be powered Number of Devices/Types of
Devices to Be Powered

The number and types of devices or components in any given computer determine
what wattage rating is needed for the power supply. It also determines what
types of connectors are needed to ensure that you can connect the power supply
to each device. The type of case the computer is in also needs to be considered
to ensure that the power supply physically fits properly.

To determine the wattage requirement of the power supply, add all of the wattage
ratings of the individual components. Your power supply’s wattage must meet or
preferably exceed that total value. The connectors needed are determined by the
connector types used on the devices to be powered. For example, if you have an
older ATX motherboard, it has a 20-pin power connection, while newer models
contain the 24-pin Molex power connection.

The power supply you select obviously must physically fit into the case. It also
needs long enough cables from the power supply to reach the components.

Number of devices/types of devices to be powered

This is a crucial element of power supply selection. When replacing a power
supply, always select a replacement power supply with the same wattage or
higher. For a new build, you can calculate your power needs using an online
wattage calculator. You’ll be surprised how much power you need. As you add
drives, expansion cards, and fans you’ll see your power requirement rise. The
motherboard, processor, and memory will also play a role. For example after
using one power supply calculator, the calculated requirement for an older
processor was 502 W (this is a load of 452 W + 10%). When we plugged in (😊)
values for the latest Socket/ CPU, our load jumped to 681 W + 10% = 731
recommended wattage. Always get a bigger power supply than you need.  You’ll
never know when you may want to add a hard drive or DVD player.
