---
title: 1.4-Compare-and-contrast-characteristics-of-various-types-of-other-mobile-devices
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-58
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 1.4-Compare-and-contrast-characteristics-of-various-types-of-other-mobile-devices
= 1.4 Compare and contrast characteristics of various types of other mobile devices.

Other Mobile Device Features

Various types of mobile devices other than laptops are gaining in popularity.
Each has its own set of characteristics that you must be able to compare and
contrast.


== Tablets
Tablets

This is a popular touch-screen device, usually 7 to 10 inches diagonally in
size, that usually runs an Android or Apple operating system.

Tablets

Tablets are a class of devices that are usually connected with other devices
using Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or NFC.

Tablet using Wi-Fi, Bluetooth or NFC

A tablet is larger than a smartphone and typically lacks a tactile keyboard and
cellular capabilities.

Tablets
• Single-screen touch computers
•• iOS, Android, etc.
•• Larger than ~7 inches diagonal
• Designed for touch input
•• Virtual keyboards, drawing interfaces
• Application support
•• Productivity, games, utility, etc.
•• Specialized applications
• Media - Take pictures, watch movies

Tablet
•
Size
o A tablet is larger than a smartphone and all glass, with a few buttons (such
as power,
home, and volume)
o Average 7” x 5” size
•
Interaction
o You must use the touch interface to interact with the tablet (or can use a
stylus)
•
Operating System
o Some tablets run a full version of an operating system (for example Microsoft
Surface,
HP Elite Pad)
o Other tablets run only limited versions of an operating system (For example
Apple
iPad), where you can only install and operate a limited set of applications
o Android operating system is common for tablets
•
Peripherals
o Tablet may contain a camera, speakers, and a microphone
o Tablet may have no external ports or only a few external ports (for ethernet,
USB,
HDMI, or mini-HDMI)
•
Repair
o Some tablets contain replaceable components (Microsoft Surface) and some
don’t.
•
Connectivity
o Tablets connect to the internet via Wi-Fi, or cellular.  Tablets may have
Bluetooth
capabilities.
o Some tablets have optional docking stations
o Tablets are battery powered

== Smartphones
Smartphones

A smartphone is a cell phone that offers advanced communication abilities, such
as e-mail, video messaging, and document viewing. They provide WiFi connectivity
in addition to cellular.

Smartphones

Smartphones are an evolution of the traditional cell phone and possess the added
capability of running mobile applications (also referred to as apps). Based on a
larger physical platform (approx. 4”x6”), the combination of apps with a touch
sensitive display enable the device to perform additional functions such as
taking pictures, accessing social media, and playing games. There are many apps
out on the marketplace, allowing you to pretty much do anything on your
smartphone. In the image, we see a cyclist using a navigation app which utilizes
the smartphone’s built-in GPS.[GL1]

Smart Phones
• Mobile communication
•• Voice, email, text, instant message, pictures, video
•• ~ 3.5 inches to 5.5 inches diagonal
• Media viewer - Music, movies, videos
• Mobile applications
•• Maps, travel information
• Other apps
•• Productivity, games, specialized apps, etc.

Smartphone
•
Size
o A smartphone (cellular telephone) is smaller than a tablet
o Average 6” x 3” in size
•
Interaction
o Interact with phone via touchscreen or stylus (larger phones such as Samsung
Galaxy
Note)
o Few phones have keyboards, such as Blackberry Key2
o Allows you to place and receive phone calls, and SMS messages (typically can’t
be
performed by a tablet)
o Smartphone may have additional features, such as a web browser, or e-mail
o Smart phones contain many sensors for light, vibration, GPS, pedometers, etc.
•
Operating System
o Apple iOS (iPhone)
o Android (Samsung Galaxy, Google Pixel).  Android is customized to each
smartphone
manufacturer and cell service provider
o Proprietary operating systems (Boeing phone, CAT phone, other military-grade
phones)
•
Peripherals
o Some smartphones have styluses
o Phone will typically have one USB port and one headphone jack
o Some phones don’t have headphone jacks
o Peripherals can include headphones, credit card readers, and external cameras
•
Repair
o Difficult to repair a smartphone due to lack of cooperation from manufacturers
o Many repair shops offer same day service for batteries and cracked screens
•
Connectivity
o Smartphone will have a SIM card which allows it to authenticate with the
cellular
network
o Some smartphones have the ability to insert two SIM cards and/or SD Cards
(for
additional memory
o A smartphone will have a cellular modem and can also connect to Wi-Fi

== Wearable technology devices
Wearable Technology Devices

You should be familiar with the types of technology devices that can be worn,
such as smart watches, fitness monitors, and headsets.

Wearable technology devices

These are devices that you can wear that are capable of measuring, storing, and
transmitting data. Typically, this type of device will use Wi-Fi or Bluetooth.
For Wi-Fi connected devices, your devices do not need to be near each other as
the Wi-Fi internet connection allows the devices to communicate.

Wearable technology
• Smart watches
•• An extension of your phone and body
• Fitness monitors
•• Track heart rate, steps, sleep patterns, and more


=== Smart watches
Smart Watches

These watches are typically connected to your smart phone and provide similar
communication abilities, such as text messaging or phone calls.

Smart watches

Smart watches are smaller than smartphones but can possess many of the same
features depending on the level of communication built in.

Smart watch

Smart watches can accommodate everything from simple interaction to full text
and voice communication if equipped for cellular communications.

Wearable Technology – Watches
•
Size
o Size of a wrist watch
•
Interaction
o Smart watches can display limited data such as SMS messages and photos
o Interact with screen or buttons on side of watch
o Smart watch may contain other sensors such as GPS, heart rate, and pedometer
o Examples include Apple Watch, some Fossil watches
o Many watch manufacturers have introduced internet-connected watch models
•
Operating System
o May run iOS, Android (with limited features), or proprietary operating system
•
Peripherals
o Typically, none
•
Repair
o Difficult to repair
o Some repair shops or manufacturer may be able to repair the watch
•
Connectivity
o Typically pairs via smartphone over Bluetooth
o Requires smartphone to be connected, and may require installation of app on
smartphone
o May have a USB port for charging and/or firmware updates
•
A smart watch will typically pair with a smartphone and can’t operate
independently


=== Fitness monitors

Fitness Monitors

This device is able to calculate certain fitness information for you, such as
your heart rate, distance traveled, or steps taken.

Fitness monitors

Taking advantage of Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, fitness monitors monitor your body
state and report the data back to the master device. (Show fitness.jpg)[GL2]
These devices allow you to measure heart rate and activity levels in real time.

Wearable Technology – Health Monitors
•
Size
o Size of a wrist watch
•
Interaction
o May have a screen and buttons to interact with
o May contain other sensors such as GPS, heart rate, and pedometer
o Updates may be available regularly, which can add functionality
o Possible to download apps directly to health monitor, including apps released by third
party developers
o Example includes the Fitbit, which has the appearance of a wrist watch
 
 
•
Operating System
o May run Android (with limited features) or proprietary operating system
•
Peripherals
o Typically, none
•
Repair
o Difficult to repair
o Some repair shops or manufacturer may be able to assist
Connectivity
  Typically pairs via smartphone over Bluetooth
o Requires smartphone to be connected, and may require installation of app on
smartphone
o May have a USB port for charging and/or firmware updates
o May require payment of monthly fee for continued use

=== VR/AR headsets
VR/AR Headsets

Virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) headsets allow the user to see
and interact with different surroundings. A virtual reality headset completely
blocks the user’s view of his or her actual surroundings and replaces it with
what is on the screen in the headset. The user can interact with the virtual
reality they are viewing and hearing in a number of ways with various input
devices. Input devices range from simple game-controller-type devices to
sensor-embedded suits and multi-directional treadmills.

Augmented reality allows the user to interact with the real world, but with
objects or information added to their view, through either a headset, tablet, or
smartphone. For example, information can be added about a street you are walking
down or a building you are looking at.

VR/AR headsets and Glasses

Glasses and headsets are a design breakthrough in the wearable technology field.
These devices project your smartphone or tablet display to a clear lens or a
screen.

Glasses and headsets

Using a built-in microphone, these devices can respond to voice commands using
voice recognition technology, allowing you to dictate and send email or text
messages along with verbally confirming any command or control input. They can
also provide an immersive experience by blocking out all other external stimuli
and place you in a virtual environment as shown below.

VR headset with headphones

Virtual reality
• Replace reality with a  computer-generated version
•• Input from the real world interacts with the virtual world
• Many different application
•• Gaming, industrial design, art
•• Enhanced video and image viewing
Augmented reality
• Overlay a virtual augmentation with the physical world
•• The computer provides additional detail
• Used in medical, travel, gaming

Wearable Technology – VR
•
Size
o Size of a pair of large goggles or a helmet
•
Interaction
o Virtual Reality technology allows you to see a new world, for example, allows
you to
feel like you are inside a 3D environment (example is Oculus Rift)
o Augmented Reality technology allows you to see your existing environment, but

presents enhanced data (example is Google Glass)
 
o You wear the device and it displays video
o Augmented Reality devices will have sensors, cameras, and GPS locators to
understand where you are and display relevant data
o Virtual Reality devices will connect with a server or computer and display
relevant
video content.  May also have sensors to identify the direction and speed of
your
movement in order to display a more realistic environment.
o May contain eye tracking sensors that understand where the user is looking.
o Good for medical and military training
Operating System
o Android or proprietary operating system
•
Peripherals
o Typically, none
•
Repair
o Difficult to repair
o Some repair shops or manufacturer may be able to assist
•
Connectivity
o May have a USB port for charging and/or firmware updates
o Oculus Rift has multiple connectors

Headset requires HDMI and USB 3.0 connection to computer

Also required to connect two camera sensors to computer

== E-readers
E-readers

These devices provide you the ability to read e-books, or books in electronic
format. Reading material can be downloaded directly to the e-reader and you may
start reading instantly.

Phablets

Physically fitting in the space between smartphones and tablets, phablets are
bigger than a smartphone and smaller than a tablet. Phablets make web browsing
more manageable and minimize the eye strain associated with smartphones. The
display size makes viewing multimedia content easier on the eyes as well.

e-Reader

An e-Reader is a dedicated reading device for e-books. Many e-Readers also allow
you to highlight and jot down notes. An e-Reader is not suitable for gaming.
Gaming and viewing video content requires a higher frequency refreshing screen
which on an e-reader can cause flicker. Gaming and viewing video content
requires a TFT display which is not power efficient and adds to the devices
weight. In addition, e-Readers have considerably less resources than a tablet.

Kindle e-Reader

The Kindle utilizes its resources for maximum benefit by using E-ink and higher
quality display resolutions. Originally possessing black and white displays,
current Kindle models have been upgraded to full 32 bit color depth displays.
Content is typically stored on the device and storage expansion is possible
using smart cards.

Smart camera

Forward-facing and rear-facing smart cameras are typically found in your
smartphone or tablet. These cameras are smart in the sense that they incorporate
additional features alongside standard picture taking such as anti-jitter image
stabilization, smile recognition, and blink recognition.

e-Readers
• Specialized device
•• Book reading - Some music, some apps
• Electronic paper
•• Black and white screen
•• Performs well in direct light
•• Exceptionally long battery life
• Network access - WiFi, cellular

E-Reader
•
Size
o Size of a tablet
•
Interaction
o Typically, a touch screen with some buttons to flip pages and scroll
o Many e-readers have a special screen that mimics printed paper
o Can read eBooks
o E-reader may have DRM so that you can’t share or copy eBooks
o E-reader may have additional functions such as ability to highlight text,
ability to
browse the web or a dictionary
o E-reader will read eBooks in the proprietary format made by its manufacturer
(For
example Kindle e-reader only reads eBooks from the Kindle store, and in PDF
format)
o Many e-reader manufacturers offer apps for the smartphone, tablet, and
computer as
well
•
Operating System
o Android or proprietary operating system
•
Peripherals
o Typically, none
•
Repair
o Difficult to repair
o Some repair shops or manufacturer may be able to assist
•
Connectivity
o May have a USB port for charging
o Can connect to Wi-Fi or cellular network

== GPS

GPS

These are small devices used solely to provide GPS functionality. They can
typically be used anytime you want navigation ability to a destination, or want
to look at surrounding places in a certain area.


GPS

The foundation of the Global Positioning System (GPS) consists of satellites
which are orbiting earth in a fixed position relative to the earth’s surface.
This orbit is referred to as a geosynchronous orbit. A minimum of three
satellites is used by the GPS module inside your personal device to determine
the exact location. The time required to receive the signals from the GPS
satellites is measured and triangulated to determine your location.

Reading GPS output on a smartphone



GPS
• In-car navigation (and non-car)
• Requires a view of the sky - Need to receive GPS signal
• Periodic updates required
•• Over the air and memory card
