---
title: 1.7-Summarize-application-installation-and-configuration-concepts
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-58
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 1.7-Summarize-application-installation-and-configuration-concepts
= 1.7 – Summarize application installation and configuration concepts.  ==
System requirements


Application Installation and Configuration

There are multiple methods to install new applications and software. Some things
need to be taken into consideration for successful installation and use of the
applications.

System Requirements

The system needs to have enough resources to allow installation of new
applications. The specific requirements depend on the application and can be
usually found in the supporting documentation for the application.

Often, you will need to do something that can’t be accomplished with your
system’s current configuration. You may require specialized software to edit
images, play audio, or play games. In a collaborative or business environment,
all users should be running the same application to view or modify content.
Whether it’s on a PC or mobile device, the pre-installation considerations are
the same. Consider the following before you attempt to install any apps,
especially if they are not free. Primarily, we will address the areas covered in
the test objectives. Most of the information you need will be in the Program
documentation. Your target device must meet or preferably exceed the areas that
follow.  System requirements

Installation Consideration • Ensure that your computer has adequate hardware o
Drive space to install the program o RAM o Processor speed o Other necessary
hardware (graphics card, etc.) • Ensure that you have the correct OS
Requirements o Correct operating system (Windows, macOS, Linux, etc.) o Correct
operating system version (Windows 7, Windows 10, etc.) o Correct operating
system type (32-bit, 64-bit) • Installation methods o Most common method was
CD/DVD  Insert the CD/DVD and run the setup file o Other method is through USB
o Most programs are available for download from the internet  Download the
program and install it o Install the program over the network  Common in
enterprise environments  Program is “pushed” to the user’s computer from a
software server and installs in the background • Local User Permissions o You
must have permission to install the program (admin permissions) o You must also
have permission to write to the folders that the program files will be copied to
• Security Considerations o Consider if the program is digitally signed and from
a reputed publisher o A program can have access to sensitive data on the
computer, especially if it runs with admin privileges  Unlike Android and iOS
apps, Windows apps don’t run in a sandbox (they have access to everything) o A
program can send data over the network or leak data Consider installing a Data
Leak Prevention device

=== Drive space Drive Space

Before running an application, its files need to be stored on the computer’s
disk. There should be enough free disk space to copy and use the program’s
files.

Drive space

You will need to know if the amount of free disk (storage) that the program
needs to install and run is sufficient. If you are downloading an installation
package, the size of the installer should be considered as well.



=== RAM RAM

To run an application, it needs to be loaded into memory. There should be
sufficient RAM available or the application will run slowly, slowing down other
processes too, or not be able to run at all.

RAM

The amount of available free memory is a very important factor. Know how much
installed RAM there is and how much is accessible by the new program. Depending
on the program’s memory requirements, performance could suffer when multiple
apps are running.  OS requirements



== OS requirements OS Requirements

An application expects to work with a specific operating system. The
installation of the software should be compatible with the operating system.
Refer to the application’s documentation to find out what operating systems are
supported.


=== Compatibility Compatibility

An application must be supported by the operating system before it can be
installed. For example, a program designed for macOS will not install on a
Windows based PC. Make sure you have the correct installation files for your
target system. In addition to the OS incompatibilities between Windows, Linux,
and macOS, determine if the system is using 32-bit or 64-bit architecture. On a
64-bit system, 32-bit or 64-bit apps will run. 64-bit apps will not install or
run on a 32-bit system.


== Methods of installation and deployment Methods of Installation and Deployment

There are multiple ways to distribute software installation files.

Methods of installation and deployment


=== Local (CD/USB) Local (CD/USB)

The only method to install new software on a computer that is not connected to
any network is to have the application on a portable media, CD or USB disk. This
can also be useful for large applications or slow networks. The installation
files can be run directly from the media or copied to the hard disk first and
then installed.

Local (CD/USB)

The majority of software installations you perform will be local installs or at
the workstation. For this method, bring the installation media to the
workstation. The installation executable may be on an optical drive (CD/DVD) or
for large programs, a USB flash drive. The program can also be downloaded from
  the Web.


=== Network-based Network-Based

On computers connected to a network, applications can be installed over the
network and not from portable media or local files. If the application is
acquired from the Internet, the files are first copied to the local disk, then
installed. Operating systems also include forms of application stores and
repositories that make it easy to find and install new software.

Network-based

When supporting multiple users, it is inefficient to move from PC to PC in order
to install software. In the business environment, a single shared executable can
be used to install software on many devices simultaneously.  Local user
permissions

In most cases, a standard user will not be able to make changes to their system
which includes installing software. Install the app with your credentials, but
you must validate operation as the user.


== Local user permissions Local User Permissions

There are permissions considerations when adding new applications. The user
installing the application needs to have the permissions to write the
application’s files to the installation directory. For some applications, the
operating system’s settings need to be modified for it to run.

The user running the application needs to have sufficient permissions to run the
application and possibly modify files and OS settings when using the software.


=== Folder/file access for installation

Folder/file access for installation

In some cases, the program will need to write to system protected folders or a
specific storage location on the network. Ensure the user has sufficient
permissions, both on the local device and the network, before allowing the user
to run the program.


== Security considerations Security Considerations

Any new software installed on a computer may cause effects that may compromise
the security of the computer and the network it is connected to.

Security considerations

The security implications of any system changes must be known. Some apps
periodically contact the vendor site to check for updates or to deliver
statistical data. Be sure the app doesn’t need to open restricted ports or make
firewall changes.


=== Impact to device

Impact to Device

Installing a new application may allow it access to other files on the computer.
Some software may be malicious and may need to be researched before installing.
Even if there are no bad intentions, some functions of the software may be not
suitable for protected corporate environments with sensitive information.

Impact to device

Device resources are finite. After an installation, check its operation. You may
experience slower performance when multiple apps are running, indicating a RAM
issue. Slower file access or program launch may be evident. Evaluate the impact
and suggest any needed changes.

Click here for the A+ Practice Test Bundle for A+ Exams 220-1001 & 220-1002



=== Impact to network #### Impact to Network

If a new application is installed on a computer that is connected to the
network, it will effectively get access to the network and may be compromising
the security of other computers on the same network.

Impact to network

Be sure to consider the network impact of any applications you install. Imagine
if all your users suddenly started video conferencing or streaming media.
  That’ll put a spike in your network graph. Be especially vigilant with
  third-party apps. The apps you install should have the same network access and
  permissions as the user. Should your app do more than advertised, such as
  mapping your network or looking for data, you need to know and act.
