---
title: 3.5-Given-a-scenario,-install-and-configure-motherboards,-CPUs,-and-add-on-cards
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 11-01-05
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# 3.5-Given-a-scenario,-install-and-configure-motherboards,-CPUs,-and-add-on-cards
= 3.5 Given a scenario, install and configure motherboards, CPUs, and add-on cards



Motherboards, CPUs, and Add-on Cards (scenario)

The motherboard provides the circuitry by which all parts of a computer
communicate with each other, from the processor to the power supply. Every part
of a computer interacts with the motherboard in some fashion. You should be able
to install and configure motherboards, as well as the CPUs and add-on cards you
plug into them, in a given scenario.


== Motherboard form factor
Motherboard Form Factor

The form factor describes the physical characteristics of the motherboard.



The Motherboard Form Factor

Although it sounds like the motherboard design is pretty standardized, the truth
is that the original design has evolved dramatically since its inception. Here
we will break them down by design, technically referred to as their Form Factor,
and the standards that govern them. Form factor is a crucial term. When you
refer to an ATX Form Factor, you have also defined the size of the internal case
dimensions, the connection type, the size of the power supply, and the
measurements and connection type of the Motherboard power. Listed below are the
Form Factors the A+ 220-901 exam is concerned with:

Motherboard Form Factor
The form factor includes
•
Motherboard dimensions
•
Number of slots
•
Location of screw holes
•
Type of power connector
Motherboard sizes and screw holes

How to install a motherboard
•
Place motherboard in case and line up with screw holes
•
Insert screws and tighten
•
Connect appropriate cables (power, peripherals)
•
Install other components such as the RAM and processor
=== ATX
ATX—ATX stands for Advanced Technology Extended. Older ATX variants contain a
20-pin Molex power connection, while newer models contain the 24-pin Molex power
connection.

ATX

This is the standard motherboard size. It is the platform for workstations and
gaming PCs alike. Its form factor specification calls for a size of 12.0” by
9.6”. The processor you can use is determined by what will fit in the socket of
the motherboard you’ve chosen. Let’s assume you did your homework and know that
the processor type, motherboard, and memory are all correct and meet your design
requirements. If any one of these are wrong, you will not have a working PC.
Refer to A+ 220-901 sub-objective 1.9 for a good starting point on this.

Most common size
Uses a 20-pin or 24-pin power connector
Can supply 3.3V, 5V, and 12V power to
connected devices
Up to seven PCI or PCIe slots
 
 
=== mATX
mATX—Micro-ATX is a little bit smaller than the ATX and does not have as much
expansion ability.

Micro-ATX (mATX)

In order to reduce the overall size of PCs, smaller form factors were
introduced. One of these was the Micro-ATX (mATX) which shaves a few inches off
of the length (9.6” by 9.6”). It shares the same power supply connections with
the regular ATX along with the same input/output back panel. mATX cannot replace
a full-size ATX motherboard but it can contain onboard audio. It also contains
at least one expansion slot that can be used by a riser card.

mATX (Micro-ATX)
Backwards compatible with an ATX
motherboard
Can be mounted to the same cases as an ATX
board (screw holes line up)
 

=== ITX

ITX—ITX is a series of significantly smaller form factor boards that were
created by VIA Technologies™. The most common one is the mini-ITX.


=== mITX
mITX—Mini-ITX is the largest of the ITX form factors, with a size of 6.7 by 6.7
inches. It is also the most popular.

Mini-ITX (aka ITX)

Mini-ITX is by far the favorite by those who seek silence over performance. That
is not to say that performance generates noise, but it does generate heat which
in turn requires cooling which can generate noise. Obviously given its size,
Mini-ITX accommodates fewer components compared to the other form factors.

mITX (mini-ITX)
Some boards contain an on-board CPU
Can be mounted to the same cases as an ATX


== Motherboard connectors types
Motherboard Connector Types

Motherboards have a variety of connectors that determine what can be connected
to it.

Motherboard connector types


=== PCI
PCI—Peripheral Component Interconnect was introduced by Intel™ in the 1990s.
This replaced older 8- and 16-bit expansion slots with a 32-bit slot.

PCI

The 32-bit PCI (Peripheral Component Interconnect) bus is the oldest expansion
slot currently covered under the A+ objectives. It is available in 32 or 64-bit
versions and is used to connect legacy hardware to the PC as seen in the image
below.

PCI 32 or 64-bit versions

PCI was subsequently replaced by PCI Express (PCI-e) which is practically the
only PCI slot you’ll see today.

PCI-X

PCI-X (where X stands for extended) comes with 32 or 64-bit slots that are
designed to be backwards compatible with 32-bit PCI cards. These cards are
designed to run at 3.3 V. The higher voltage portion of the slot is beyond what
the 32-bit 3.3 V card can reach.

Peripheral Component Interconnect
Allows us to connect a PCI card (such as a
graphics card)
Card slot is only available in one size
 
 
=== PCIe
PCIe—PCI express sends data in a serial stream at higher speeds than
conventional PCI. It has superseded PCI.

PCI-e

Another variation of PCI is sometimes written as PCI-e (where e is for Express).
PCI-e and PCI-X are not compatible with each other. When using PCI-Express, 16
lanes of communication are available and the physical size of the card will
determine the number of lanes it may utilize. For example, an x16 slot will
accommodate an x1 card

In the following image, you can see the PCI-e 16 slots: The first one is black
and the second is blue. The slots can be used together for increased bandwidth.

PCI-e 16 slots: The first is black and the second is blue.

Mini-PCI / Mini-PCIe

USB is always an option when adding a wireless card. Here we’ll talk about
internal expansion options: the Mini PCI slot and the Mini-PCIe slot. Here is
how they compare.

Mini-PCI to Mini-PCIe Comparison

The Mini-PCI and the Mini-PCIe slot allow manufacturers to adjust laptop
features to user needs without having to design a new laptop. The slot works the
same way as in desktops, only on a much smaller scale. Accessible through a
service panel, the Mini-PCIe slot is USB 2.0 compliant and can be used to
increase storage capacity, add Bluetooth, or add/upgrade wireless capabilities.
For example, a user with a decent laptop and 802.11 b/g/n wireless only had to
buy an 802.11g or 802.11ac card and swap it out if they wanted a wireless
upgrade. This wireless upgrade required care and patience because while the card
was easy to swap out, the internal antennae have tiny F type connectors that
take time and care to connect. Pictured here is a Mini-PCIe wireless card ready
to be installed. Note the black slot and the gold antenna connectors. The card
will be screwed into a secure position.

True computer portability was born in laptops with the introduction of the
mini-PCI card. This card could be a modem or a wireless interface card.
Improvements have followed but real untethered portability began with this
standard.

PCIe
Peripheral Component Interconnect Express
Allows us to connect a PCIe card (such as a
graphics card)
A PCIe slot is faster than a PCI slot and available
in more sizes
 
 
A PCIe card may obtain power from the system
board or may have a separate power connector
 
 
 
PCIe slots are backwards compatible with PCI


=== Riser card
Riser card—A riser card plugs into an existing connector and contains more
connectors of the same type. It increases the number of cards you can add. It
also changes the orientation of the connectors 90 degrees so that cards can fit
into a smaller case.

Riser cards

Space inside the PC has always been at a premium. One clever solution is to
change the orientation of the installed expansion card. Instead of installing
vertically in a single slot, the riser makes it possible to mount multiple cards
horizontally from one vertical installation (see picture). The cards can vary in
height but this does not have any impact on the case height. This type of
arrangement can support up to four cards per slot. There is renewed interest
with these cards due to the popularity of Home Theater PC units which need the
capabilities of a full size PC with half the space.

Riser Card with two horizontal slots

A Riser Card allows us to connect additional
cards by providing additional slots
It is inserted into the system board
Allows us to install cards horizontally
Used mainly in rack-mount servers, which don’t
have enough space to mount cards vertically

=== Socket types
Socket types—CPUs plug into sockets. Two common socket types are zero insertion
force (ZIF) and land grid array (LGA). ZIF has holes that CPU pins slide into.
LGA has pins that CPU contacts sit on top of. The CPU is held in place by a
lever that keeps pressure on the CPU to hold it in place.

CPU Sockets

This section addresses CPU sockets, the processors they support, and the
technologies they employ. The first thing you will notice is that there are many
pin configurations and design variations. There are eleven individual socket
types but these can be grouped into two main categories. The PGA (Pin Grid
Array) type consists of a socket on the motherboard which is made up of a
pattern of small receptors designed to only accept a particular chip’s pin
pattern. Then there is the LGA (Land Grid Array) type which reverses the PGA
design by putting the small fragile pins inside the socket where they have
greater protection against bending and breakage. The LGA design also provides a
more solid connection.

NOTE: Intel favors the LGA package while AMD offers a mix of LGA (TR4) and PGA
chips (AM series and FM2). Intel and AMD processors use incompatible
motherboards.

Asus P7P55-M LGA 1156

Although 32-bit processor architecture is present, most of today’s systems have
moved to 64-bit architecture. Another thing to consider is that a new machine
today will likely have its GPU (Graphics Processing Unit) integrated on the
processor chip.

Notice how the LGA socket is configured to make optimal contact with an LGA
processor. This is a bit of a hardware revolution compared to previous PGA
designs which used pins on the processor chip to make the connection. These pins
are not only fragile but get exposed to more incidental damage than those in the
LGA design which uses the socket to help protect the pins. Be advised this does
not mean that the PGA design is gone. LGA is where the technology is headed but
PGA units exist in vast numbers.

Disable execute bit

Both Intel and AMD processors offer a hardware-based security feature which
prevents application code from executing in specified memory areas. This feature
is known by several names: Execute Disable Bit (EDB) and eXecute Disable (XD) by
Intel and Enhanced Virus Protection (EVP) by AMD. This feature is generically
called the NX bit (no-execute). CompTIA refers to this feature as the disable
execute bit. Although it’s a processor feature, the disable execute bit must
also be supported by the UEFI/BIOS and the operating system. When enabled, the
processor can isolate certain memory areas and prevent the execution of malware,
particularly those that produce buffer overflows.

A socket is a slot for a processor
There are two main socket types
 
LGA (Land Grid Array)
•
Used by Intel
•
The socket contains pins
•
There are multiple types of LGA sockets
such as LGA 1156, and LGA 1155
•
Each socket type has a different number
of pins and a different shape
•
You must match the processor socket
type with the motherboard socket type.  
If the sockets are different, the processor

PGA (Processor Grid Array)
•
Used by AMD
•
Pins are on the processor
•
There are multiple types of PGA sockets
such as AM2+ and AM3
•
Each socket type has a different number
of pins and a different shape
•
You must match the processor socket
type with the motherboard socket type.  
If the sockets are incompatible, the

=== SATA
SATA—The Serial ATA connector is used to connect a hard drive or optical drive.

SATA & eSATA connectors

We start with the SATA connector. This connection uses Serial Advanced
Technology Attachment (SATA) for internal drive connections such as hard disks
and optical drives. SATA is the replacement for Parallel ATA (PATA) which was
the preceding primary drive connection method. Because of its flexibility, the
SATA interface can connect externally to the machine using an eSATA port. In the
table, you can see the internal SATA Data and power connectors. Many SATA
devices ship with a MOLEX-to-SATA adapter cable for power. eSATA connects
external devices. You can distinguish the SATA from eSATA by noting the L shaped
SATA connector. The eSATA connector has a straight rectangular interface and an
external rib on each side of the plug. This feature prevents improper
insertion.

A motherboard will have multiple SATA
connectors
Each SATA connector can connect to a drive
(HDD or Optical Drive)
SATA connectors can be horizontal or vertical

=== IDE
IDE—IDE connectors are another hard drive connection point. It has been largely
replaced by SATA.

DE connectors are used to connect to HDDs
and Optical Drives
Older motherboards will have IDE connectors
=== Front panel connector
Front panel connector—The front panel has components on it that need to connect
back to the motherboard. Each computer is different, but front panel components
may include LEDs, USB ports, the power switch, a reset button, and audio
connections. There may be multiple connections between the front panel and
motherboard.

Front panel / USB connector

This is for the hundreds of thousands of technicians who spent their days
crawling underneath desks to hook up speakers. We now have front panel
connections for a variety of configurable connectors. This includes USB which
allows for incredible ease of connectivity for a wide variety of devices. It’s
safe to say your prayers (and mine) are answered.

Here are some of the options available for the front panel:
> USB
> Audio
> Power button
> Power light
> Drive activity lights
> Reset button

Hooking up the system LEDs while also showing some motherboard connections and
labels.
 
The PC case will have several items on the front
panel, including
•
Power button
•
Reset button
•
Power light
•
Hard Drive activity light
The front panel is connected to the
motherboard via a cable
 
The connectors on the motherboard may be
color coded.  Consult the motherboard manual
to see how to connect them
 
 
The connectors are typically labelled
=== Internal USB connector

Internal USB connector—An internal USB connector allows you to add USB ports.
They would typically be mounted in an open expansion slot.

The front panel may contain some USB ports
A cable connects the front USB ports to the

A motherboard will contain external connectors,
including
•
USB
•
PS/2 for keyboard/mouse
•
Ethernet
•
Speaker/Microphone
•
Video port (one or more of HDMI, DVI,

== BIOS/UEFI settings
BIOS/UEFI settings

The BIOS is, arguably, one of the most important aspects of a computer. You need
to have a good understanding of system BIOS and how to modify the settings.
Understand the importance of selecting the proper boot sequence and how BIOS
provides low-level drivers that allow the operating system to interact with
various hardware components. Comprehend the various stages in the boot sequence,
the system POST, and the role BIOS plays in loading the operating system. The
CompTIA A+ questions about BIOS require that you assess a scenario to be able to
choose the best answer.

BIOS / UFEI settings

Here we will look at the PC’s BIOS (Basic Input Output System) and UEFI (Unified
Extensible Firmware Interface) configuration from the CompTIA A+ 220-901 exam
perspective. Your knowledge of these technologies, old and new, holds the key to
success on the A+ exam.

Take the System BIOS or UEFI as an example. Now this is cool! It’s a GUI! Menu
driven! And that is just looks. Now we stop and before the smart half of the
class starts yelling, I’ll take care of this. If you are using UEFI you don’t
have a UEFI BIOS. UEFI Is UEFI and BIOS is BIOS. Although they appear to perform
similar functions, the similarities are superficial. For example, changing the
boot drive is a common feature and easily configured for either firmware. The
same is not true for configuring HDD’s that are greater than 4 TB.

OK, we have identified the type of firmware involved and their roles but suppose
you stumble on a working motherboard that has the components you need onboard!
Fantastic news! All you have to do is ensure firmware compatibility. Depending
on your equipment and its level of support, this can be as simple as pressing a
button on the motherboard (UEFI) or as tough as assembling the whole machine and
evaluating the results (BIOS). Refer to the documentation and choose your path.

In a BIOS configured system, you will encounter a tab based multilevel interface
that is navigated using the keyboard only. Most BIOS have the following main
tabs:


Main: Contains Main entries for system date and time. Shows amount of installed
memory.

Example of main tab in BIOS

Devices: Depending on your configuration, you may or may not have these choices.
If you have the following items, this is where they will be: Serial Port Setup,
USB Setup, ATA Drive Setup, Video Setup, Audio Setup, and Network Setup.

Advanced:  Will contain settings for the primary CPU setup and manageability.
Items such as Multiprocessing, Hyper Threading, and Virtualization technologies
will be controlled here.

Power: This section controls the system behavior after a power loss. Power
saving settings are also stored here along with automatic cooling settings (if
any).

Security Boot: This section contains the capability to lock down the system as
necessary, from power on and administrative passwords to setting Secure Boot.
Also listed here is the provision to allow or disallow BIOS flashing.

Exit:  You can save your changes and exit or disregard them if you made a
mistake.

Observing the BIOS configuration, you will notice settings for:

Boot sequence: Selecting the order in which device boot data is loaded. This
could be anything from a USB stick, a CD-ROM, or a hard disk. For stronger
security, disable USB boot.

Enabling and disabling devices: This controls which devices will be considered
as acceptable when seeking boot data. Again, consider security factors when
making these decisions.

Date/time: Current System Date/Time. A zero-day attack can be triggered by
changing the date.

Clock speeds: Timings set for CPU and memory. Changing these could easily reduce
system stability.

Virtualization support: Enable/disable hardware virtualization support

BIOS security: Enable/disable security settings including TPM, passwords,
lo-jack, and secure boot.


=== Boot options
Boot Options

You can set the sequence of devices to boot from in the boot option settings.
You usually boot from the hard drive, but you may want to boot from an optical
drive or flash drive. The boot sequence tells the BIOS where to look to load the
operating system. It will proceed down the list in the order configured until it
finds an operating system to load.

Also known as “start up”
Allows you to choose the order of the boot
devices
The computer will attempt to boot from the first
available boot device.  If no bootable operating
system is found, it will try the next item on the
list.
Choices include
•
Hard disk drives
•
Optical drive
•
Network
•
USB (some BIOSs don’t support USB
booting)
 
 
Can choose a “boot mode”
•
Legacy (run by traditional firmware on
Read Only Memory).  If you upgrade the
computer, you must upgrade the drivers
in the Read Only Memory, or a boot
error might occur.
•
UEFI (provides advanced options such as
additional operating systems).  New
Microsoft operating systems don’t
support Legacy any more.  UEFI allows
drivers to be incorporated into the
system and updated.  UEFI is faster
•
Auto (allows both Legacy and UEFI;
automatically detects the correct one to

=== Firmware updates
Firmware Updates

Always check the version of the BIOS you are using before doing an upgrade. This
can be found in your system information utility, or by typing msinfo32 into the
cmd prompt. Most manufacturers offer BIOS upgrades directly from their website,
as a simple download, and it is a very straightforward process. Just download
the correct file, based on the type of system you have, and run the update to
begin the installation. This entire procedure is known as flashing the BIOS.

Allows us to update the BIOS
Check the firmware version in the BIOS.  Check
with the manufacturer to see if an update is
available
A firmware update can be made by
downloading the new firmware and running the

=== Security settings
Security Settings

You are able to secure access to the BIOS, or to the operating system, by
setting certain passwords from within the BIOS. These security measures require
a password at startup to load the operating system or make changes to the BIOS.

Several settings are available
•
BIOS password (requires a password to
change BIOS settings)
•
Power-On Password (requires a
password to power on the computer,
before the Operating System is loaded)
•
Smart USB Protection (prevents copying
or use of USB devices)
•
Secure Boot (prevent new or
unauthorized operating systems from
being loaded, such as on USB drives).  
Secure boot remembers the digital
signature of the boot operating system.  
It blocks operating systems with different

=== Interface configurations
Interface Configurations

This provides settings specific to interface categories or individual interfaces
such as PCIe or SATA.
Security

Allows us to enable/disable computer interfaces,
including
•
Audio
•
Video
•
USB
•
Network
•
PCI cards
•
Serial/Parallel ports

=== Security
Security settings control access to the BIOS and set security features.


==== Passwords
Passwords—The supervisor or admin password, if enabled, requires a password to
view and set all BIOS settings. The user or system password allows minor changes
such as time and date or boot options to be set.


==== Drive encryption
Drive encryption—An encryption key can be set to access an encrypted hard drive.
If set, that key must be used for decryption, even if the drive is moved to
another computer.


===== TPM
    TPM—The Trusted Platform Module is a security chip that stores cryptographic
    keys.

Trusted Platform Module
Secure chip that stores encryption keys
Allows a user to encrypt and decrypt a hard disk
drive, and prevents brute-force password
guessing
Ensures that the computer boot process is not
hijacked by unauthorized applications

===== LoJack
    LoJack—A feature that enables a stolen device to be tracked, locked, and/or
    wiped.

Theft recovery system
Allows a user to remotely lock, erase, or locate a
stolen laptop
LoJack software is installed in the BIOS, not the
HDD (it’s installed on the HDD on Apple
computers).
The LoJack software remains on the BIOS even if
===== Secure boot
    Secure boot—Secure boot ensures that the operating system and drivers are
    authorized versions without malicious code before loading them.


== CMOS battery
CMOS Battery

The CMOS (complementary metal oxide semiconductor) battery was originally used
to maintain system settings stored in CMOS RAM since it was volatile. It is also
used to power the systems real-time clock. Over the years, CMOS RAM has been
replaced by flash memory that does not require a battery to maintain data;
however, the real-time clock still requires a battery. As a preparation for this
test, you should know how to locate and replace the CMOS battery.

CMOS Battery

CMOS/UEFI settings (the System Configuration Information) are stored safely in
the firmware. All of these essential settings are maintained by a small watch
battery. When this battery is low or dead, signs of failure include the loss of
the PC date and time and the loss of hard disks. Make certain that the
configuration does not get lost or forgotten by keeping it electronically
refreshed. Firmware is reasonably resistant to data loss but to be safe, it is
periodically refreshed electronically using a tried and true 2032 battery. This
battery model remains unchanged since 1985!

CMOS Battery

CMOS Battery
•
Allows BIOS to store settings and keep an accurate real-time clock, even when
the computer
is powered off
•
Lifespan of approximately three years
•
If the computer fails to keep an accurate time, the battery is probably dead and
should be

== CPU features
CPU Features

There are several important features of CPUs that are important to consider. You
need to understand the different features and their impact on performance.

CPU features

When selecting your processor and motherboard, the key features you should be
concerned with are the processor speed, the number of cores, and the amount of
cache memory available. When calculating your processor speed, remember that if
you have four 2GHz cores, the resultant speed is not additive. What you have is
four cores capable of operating at 2.0 GHz simultaneously. Your processor with
four 2 Ghz cores does not equate to an 8GHz processor.  

A good look in the BIOS/UEFI will flesh out the rest of the information you need
to satisfy this objective. On Intel motherboards, is hyper threading enabled?
You want hyper threading to be active because this enables your processor to
work on multiple tasks, smoothing out the operations and allowing several things
to take place at once.

You also want to check your L1, L2, and L3 cache. These locations act as
temporary holding areas for data that are in process but not complete. L1 is the
fastest and usually the most expensive real estate on the machine. Generally, L1
cache is in multiples of 64k of fast memory on the processor chip. Following
that will be the L2 cache. Sometimes L2 cache is on the chip but more often than
not it’s on the motherboard. L3 cache, if present, will be on the motherboard.
All of these relatively small storage areas save the PC from having to save and
retrieve data from the system buses during routine operations.

=== Single core
Single-Core

A core is the part of the CPU that reads and executes instructions. As the name
implies, a single-core CPU has one core. Most of today’s CPUs have multiple
cores.

A processor chip with a single processor, is
considered to have a “single core”.
It can run one task/thread at a time
 
=== Multicore
Multicore

A core is the part of the CPU that reads and executes instructions. Multicore
CPUs have more than one core. This allows different threads of instructions to
be run simultaneously, with each core running one thread, resulting in faster
performance. A dual-core processor will run faster than a single core, but not
quite twice as fast. There are also quad-core, eight core, and other types of
multicore processors.

Multi Core
A processor chip with multiple processors
Allows the processor to execute multiple
tasks/threads at the same time
Commonly, processors will have a “dual core” or
two processing units
The advantage of having a multi-core
processor, as opposed to multiple single-core
processors, is that the signals travel faster
between the cores
The operating system and software must be
written to handle multi-core processors in order
to take advantage of their functionality
 

=== Virtual technology
Virtualization

Some CPUs have features to support virtual machines (VMs), running multiple
operating systems on a single machine. They offload some of the work that VM
software would have to do, improving VM performance. Intel™ calls theirs Intel™
Virtualization Technology. AMD™ calls theirs AMD-V.

Virtual technology

You will undoubtedly be tested on this topic. Virtualization enables you to run
multiple instances of complete machines on a single hardware platform. This is a
considerable resource savings and quite a boost to productivity. Remember to
check the BIOS/UEFI first. With virtualization enabled in BIOS, you can install
as many virtual machines as you like! However, everything must be properly
licensed. Once installed, you can’t tell the virtual machine from the original!

Virtualization
Virtualization allows a single processor to act as
multiple processors
Typically, must be enabled in the BIOS
Virtualization is required to run a virtual
machine or a hypervisor
Virtualization allows a processor to isolate tasks
received from the different virtual machines
 

=== Hyperthreading

Hyperthreading

Hyperthreading, or multithreading, leverages virtual cores to run applications
15 to 30 percent faster.

Hyperthreading
For each physical core, allows the processor to
create two virtual cores
The operating system will send instructions
addressed to each virtual core
Allows an operating system to send two
Performance improvement is application
dependant
 


=== Speeds
Speeds

CPU speed, typically measured ingigahertz, is a measure of how fast a processor
can read and execute instructions.

Cooling and Processor Speeds

Processor speed is defined by the core speed of the processor multiplied by the
speed of the Front Side Bus. The processor speed can be manipulated. Processor
speed is sometimes sped up or “Overclocked” by increasing the multiplier of the
Front Side Bus. This practice can be dangerous since the faster the processor
runs, the hotter it gets. For normal use, processors come supplied with a
12-volt fan and heatsink that is attached to the processor via thermal paste and
clamps. This provides adequate cooling for general use but will prove inadequate
in extreme situations such as overclocking. If you intend to overclock the
machine, it is important to upgrade the cooling system to a liquid-based system
and add fans to the case. Otherwise, you will shorten the life of the
processor.

How many instructions per second a processor
can handle
Also known as the ‘clock rate’
The clock rate is not an accurate measurement
of speed unless you are comparing two
processors of the same model
Other factors affect processing speed, including
the number of cores, hyperthreading
technology, the type of application in use, and
the architecture of the processor
 
=== Overclocking
Overclocking

Overclocking is running the CPU at a speed higher than it was designed to
operate. Some CPUs allow this while others do not. It will improve the
performance of the CPU but generate more heat, so added cooling may be needed to
prevent damage to the CPU.

Overclocking
Overclocking is the process of forcing a
processor to run at a faster clock rate than was
originally intended
The default clock rate is set by the manufacturer
considering the amount of heat generated and
the amount of power consumed
Overclocking causes a processor to use more
power and generate more heat
When overclocking, consider
•
Providing adequate cooling (a processor
that is overclocked may overheat,
causing permanent damage)
•
Providing adequate power (the system
board may not be able to provide
enough power)
•
System stability (a processor that is


=== Integrated GPU
Integrated GPU

An integrated GPU is a graphics processing unit embedded with the CPU. It is not
as powerful as a stand-alone GPU, but it is commonly used in laptops to save
space.

An Integrated Graphics Processing Unit allows
the processor to handle graphics processing,
instead of using a separate GPU
System RAM is used for graphics memory

== Compatibility
Compatibility

CPUs need to be installed in motherboards that have CPU sockets and chipsets
that they are compatible with.


=== AMD
AMD

Specific AMD CPUs must run with specific AMD chipsets. The motherboard
manufacturers may vary.

AMD and Intel both make good processors
They have most of the market share
There are differences in the processors, but
products tend to change over time  
 
=== Intel
Intel™

Specific Intel™ CPUs must run with specific Intel™ chipsets. The motherboard
manufacturers may vary.

Intel
Intel produces processors for desktops, laptops,
and other devices
Main Intel product line
•
i3 processor: dual-core, 4MB cache
•
i5 processor: quad-core, doesn’t
supports hyperthreading, 6MB cache
•
i7 processor: quad-core. supports
hyperthreading, 8MB cache
 
ARM
ARM processors are used in consumer
electronics such as phones, tablets, multimedia
players
Processors are smaller and use less power


== Cooling mechanism
Cooling Mechanism

Components on motherboards and add-on cards generate heat, especially CPUs and
GPUs. There are several types of cooling mechanisms to remove heat from a
computer.


=== Fans
Fans

Fans are used to move air through a computer to remove heat. Fans are positioned
in the case to allow air to pass between the inside of the case and the outside.
Fans are also used on individual components to provide extra cooling. They are
sometimes integrated with a heat sink.

A computer fan is usually, but not always
necessary
It depends on the design of the case
Typical computer cases will come with fans pre-
installed
A fan draws cool air from outside the case and
blows it inside.  As the air warms up, it is ejected
outside the case.
Proper cooling is important.  Heat can damage
computer components.
 
 
A CPU will normally have a fan mounted on top
of it.  A processor is typically sold with a fan and
heatsink.
A graphics card will also typically have a fan
installed on it.
 
=== Heat sink
Heat Sink

Heat sinks are devices that conduct heat and have the effect of increasing the
surface area of a component. This removes heat from the component more quickly
than fans alone. Some heat sinks have fans built into them.

Passive Heat Sink

No discussion of heat control in today’s PCs would be complete without
mentioning the original cooling solution. The passive (or fanless) heatsink
consists of a small aluminum block with fins that stick up vertically to catch
airflow and dissipate the heat from the chip. A remarkably simple design, the
passive heatsink creates enormous surface area for more effective heat
exchange.

Active Heat Sink

The most modern approach for moving heat is the liquid based cooler.

This design takes the elements described up to this point and adds cooling
liquid. Sealed and leak-proof, a liquid based cooling system flows liquid over
the chip to absorb the heat. The liquid is then cooled through radiators located
in cooler areas of the machine, dramatically decreasing the temperature. The
cooled liquid is then returned to the chip and the process repeats
continuously.

Liquid Based Cooler

Heat Sink
A heat sink sits on top of the processor
It absorbs heat from the processor
It has fins, which increase its surface area and
A fan may sit on top of the heatsink

=== Liquid
Liquid

For high-performance computers, air cooling may not be enough. Liquid cooling is
more effective at transferring heat away from components. Distilled water is the
most commonly used liquid. Liquid cooling systems include a tank for the liquid,
a radiator, a water pump, and a cooling block that attaches to the component
being cooled. These components may be in the computer or outside in a separate
unit that connects to the computer.


Liquid Cooling
Liquid cooling involves pumping a liquid
through the computer
A pump forces the liquid through a heat
exchanger, which is in contact with the
processor and other components
Liquid passing through the heat exchanger
absorbs heat
The liquid then passes through a radiator, which
liquid cools off in the radiator, and then is
returned to the computer
 
 
Note that the liquid never actually touches the
computer components
 
Liquid cooling is more efficient than air cooling,
and is necessary for overclocking

=== Thermal Paste
Thermal Paste

The quality of contact between a component to be cooled and the heat sink used
to cool it will impact how effectively it is cooled. Thermal paste conducts heat
and is used between the component and heat sink to make the best
thermal-conductive connection.

Thermal Paste

The exchange is where the chip conducts its heat through a layer of thermally
conductive paste which is used to avoid uneven thermal transfer.

Attaching a fan to the passive heatsink creates the more familiar active
heatsink.

Between the heatsink and the processor is a
layer of thermal paste
Thermal paste allows more efficient transfer of
heat from the processor to the heatsink
 
== Expansion cards
Expansion Cards

Expansion cards add additional functionality to your PC. You must use expansion
cards that are compatible with the expansion slots available. You should
understand how to install and configure expansion cards.


=== Video cards
Video Cards

Video cards control the graphics that are displayed. This function may be
provided by an add-on card or it may be on-board, meaning built into the
motherboard.

Video cards

Most of today’s PCs ship with video integrated in the motherboard. These
solutions are more than sufficient for the average user. Very advanced users,
such as graphic artists and extreme gamers, will order custom cards or manually
upgrade their video components. Users will seek cards that have very high frame
rates, as much fast memory as they can afford, and the fastest video interface
attainable.

PCI Express 2.0 x16 Video Card

Here’s a card that fits the bill: PCI Express 2.0 x16 connection, good speed,
fast memory, and lots of connectors. Adapters are usually used for other
possible connections. These expansion cards can be used either as upgrades or as
replacements for a failed motherboard component.

==== Onboard
On-board—On-board video cards typically provide good graphics features and
specifications. It serves the purpose for most users, but some users, like
gamers or graphic designers, may need better graphics.

An onboard video card is a chip that is
integrated into the motherboard or part of the
existing processor
Also known as an integrated graphics chip
 
Most motherboards have integrated graphics
chips
The graphics chip on this motherboard is
located on the lower right corner
It is not possible to upgrade an onboard video
card
 
 
==== Add-on card
Add-on card—Add-on video cards have their own GPU (graphics processing unit).
They are used to improve the graphics capabilities beyond what the on-board
video provides.

Video Card - Expansion
An expansion video card is a separate card
The graphics card will have separate video ports
as outputs
The type and quantity of ports depends on the
model of graphics card
It is possible to use both an integrated and an
expansion video card at the same time
•
Can force specific monitors to use the
integrated graphics and others to use
the expansion graphics, if you change
the video setting in the BIOS
The expansion card plugs into the motherboard
(PCIe port or AGP port)
An additional driver may be required
An expansion video card may have separate

=== Sound cards
Sound Cards

Add-on sound cards are used to improve the sound capabilities beyond the
motherboard’s sound capabilities. A musician, composer, or audiophile may choose
to upgrade their computer’s sound with an add-on card.

Sound cards

For most PCs, sound chips are being embedded on the motherboards. If it is
deficient, sound will be one of the first PC shortcomings users will want to
address. Usually, upgrades will entail a pair (or more) of speakers and a more
powerful sound card to drive the speakers. Sound cards are usually an internal
device that connects to a PCI expansion slot. A typical sound card is shown in
the image below.

Typical PCI-e-x1 sound card

Most motherboards are equipped with
integrated sound cards.  A sound card provides
audio input and output.
 
It is possible to add a separate sound card  
A sound card may provide enhanced audio
quality as compared to the integrated sound
 
Important to consider
•
How many audio channels a sound card
produces (each audio channel
corresponds to a source).  If we’re
mixing music from multiple sources, then
each source could be a different
channel.
•
Intel High Definition Audio is an
integrated audio chip.  It is a standard
feature of many motherboards and

=== Network interface card
Network Interface Card

A network interface card (NIC) is built into almost all motherboards today. An
add-on card would typically only be necessary if you wanted a different
interface or to connect to a second network.

Network cards

There are two types of network cards: wired and wireless.
Wired network cards

First we will look at the wired cards. These cards have either Fiber optic,
Ethernet, or both. When your Ethernet card fails or if there is a good reason to
upgrade, such as for a faster Ethernet switch, it’s time to look at your network
specifications. Determine the best fit for the new or proposed network and
select the card. Don’t buy it yet! Check your machine for free ports and make
sure that they are compatible with your card choice.
Wireless network cards

The same holds true for wireless cards. Check the specs! Most of the time, you
will end up adding an internal card but it is easy to find USB models of these
cards. It’s easy to see that the wireless networking trend took off quickly and
there were innumerable laptops and portables with Ethernet only connections
installed that needed wireless upgrades. The quickest and easiest solution to
this condition was to develop a USB Wireless adapter. There! All fixed.

There are also a number of Wireless network cards available in PCI and PCI-e
configurations.

Network Interface Card
The network interface provides an ethernet
connection.
A motherboard will typically have one integrated
network interface, which can operate at 100 or
1000 Mbps.
 
It is possible to add additional network interfaces
through expansion cards.  Additional interfaces
can be copper or fiber, and can operate at 100
Mbps, 1000 Mbps, 10 Gbps, or even 40 Gbps.  
These faster speeds are not practical for most
applications.
 
 
 
=== USB expansion card
USB Expansion Card

A USB expansion card is used to add USB ports to the computer. It may also be
used to add newer version USB ports.

USB cards

USB Cards provide additional or even faster USB connections to your PC.
Available in several configurations (with internal and external ports), you can
take a PC with USB 1.0 installed and add a USB 3.0 card. If the card has
internal connections, you can also upgrade your hard disk. Ultimately, you will
triple the throughput of your connected devices. If you have any need to
upgrade, consider the USB option for ease of use.
eSATA cards

Covered above.

USB Expansion Card
USB Expansion Card
A motherboard will typically have several
integrated USB interfaces.  They may be USB 2.0,
3.0, or a combination of the two.  A
motherboard will also typically have a connector
for the USB ports at the front of the case.
 
It is possible to add additional USB ports with an
expansion card.
 
 
 


=== eSATA card
eSATA Card

An eSATA card is used to connect to external SATA storage devices.

eSATA Card
A motherboard may have an integrated eSATA
The eSATA interface provides connectivity to
external storage devices.
It is possible to add additional eSATA interfaces

