---
title: What is Python Syntax ? WIP
author: Justin Bealer
date_created: 2023-11-16, 04-00-39
date_modified: 2024-09-17, 09-29-51
reference: 
description: 
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# What is Python Syntax ? WIP

---
**Syntax**:

- is a set of rules and principles that describes the structure of a language.

**Python syntax**:

- is a set of rules that defines how a Python program will be written and interpreted.

A Python program is read by a parser.
Input to the parser is a stream of tokens, generated by the lexical analyzer.
Lexical analyzer breaks a file into tokens.
Python reads program text as Unicode code points.
Source file encoding defaults to UTF-8.
Defining the Encoding:
`#!/usr/bin/python3`
`# -*- coding: <encoding name> -*-`
If the source file cannot be decoded, a SyntaxError is raised.

.Types of Syntax Structure in Python WIP
[Line Structure](python-line-structure.md)
[Comments](python-comments.md)
[Docstrings](python-comments.md)
[Indentation](python-indentation.md)
[Quotations](python-quotations.md)
[Identifiers](python-tokens.md)
[Variables](python-variables.md)
[Strings Formatters](python-comments.md)

[Statements](python-statements.md)

## Errors

SyntaxError means there is something wrong with the way your program is written
- punctuation that does not belong, a command where it is not expected, or a
    missing parenthesis can all trigger a SyntaxError.

NameError occurs when the Python interpreter sees a word it does not recognize.
Code that contains something that look like a variable but was never defined
will throw a NameError.

## Others
expression is a piece of code that produce a value.
statement is an entire line of code that performs some sort of action.

  #python #syntax
