# CPE C++ Certified Entry-Level Programmer Certification

## Skills measured

Becoming CPE certified ensures that you are familiar with the universal
concepts of computer programming as well as acquainted with the most
essential means provided by the C++ language, which enable you to start
your own studies at the next level of C programming education, and to
continue your professional development. Skills measured

## 1 Installing And Using Your Programming Environment

Introduction to IDE; Online tools; Edube Interactive.

## 2 Absolute Basics ŌĆō Introduction to Computer Programming

languages: natural and artificial; machine languages; high-level
programming languages, obtaining the machine code: compilation process;
variables; integer values in real life and in C++; integer literals;
characters; comments; the basics of flow control; dealing with streams
and basic I/O operations; writing simple programs.

## 3 Advanced flow control and data aggregates

how to control the flow of the program; more data types; conditional
instructions: if, else, switch; loops and controlling the loop
execution; logic, bitwise and arithmetic operators; vectors,
multidimensional arrays; declaring and initializing structures.

## 4 Extending expressive power: pointers, functions, and memory

designing, declaring, and invoking functions; pointers; different
methods of passing parameters and their purpose; default parameters;
inline functions; overloaded functions; sorting; memory on demand.

## 5 Accessing various data types

arrays of pointers; conversions; strings: declarations, initializations,
assignments; strings as an example of objects: (methods and properties)
using and declaring namespaces; dealing with exceptions.

# CPA C++ Certified Associate Programmer Certification

A test candidate should demonstrate sufficient knowledge of the
universal concepts of computer programming, developer tools, the syntax
and semantics of the C++ language, data types offered by the C++
language, the principles of the object-oriented model and its
implementation in the C++ language, the means useful in resolving
typical implementation problems with the help of standard C++ language
libraries, and writing programs using standard language infrastructure
regardless of the hardware or software platform.

## CPA Exam: Outline

ŌÖ” Introduction to compiling and software development; ŌÖ” Basic scalar
data types, operators, flow control, streamed input/output, conversions;
ŌÖ” Declaring, defining and invoking functions, function overloading; ŌÖ”
Data aggregates; ŌÖ” Strings processing, exceptions handling, dealing with
namespaces; ŌÖ” Object-oriented approach and its vocabulary; ŌÖ” Dealing
with classes and objects, class hierarchy and inheritance; ŌÖ” Defining
overloaded operators, user-defined operators, exceptions;

## Absolute basics

’éĘ machine and high-level programming languages, compilation process, ’éĘ
obtaining the machine code: compilation process, ’éĘ writing simple
programs, ’éĘ variables, ’éĘ integers: values, literals, operators, ’éĘ
characters: values, literals, operators, ’éĘ dealing with streams and
basic input/output operations.

## Flow control and more data types

’éĘ how to control the flow of the program ’éĘ floating point types: values,
literals, operators, ’éĘ more integer types: values and literals, ’éĘ loops
and controlling the loop execution, ’éĘ logic, bitwise and arithmetic
operators.

## Functions

’éĘ functions, ’éĘ declaring and invoking functions, ’éĘ side effects, ’éĘ
different methods of passing parameters and their purpose, ’éĘ default
parameters, ’éĘ inline functions, ’éĘ overloaded functions.

## Accessing data and dealing with exceptions

’éĘ converting values of different types, ’éĘ strings: declarations,
initializations, assignments, ’éĘ string as an example of object:
introducing methods and properties, ’éĘ namespaces: using and declaring, ’éĘ
dealing with exceptions.

## Fundamentals of the object-oriented approach

’éĘ class, ’éĘ objects, ’éĘ class components, ’éĘ constructors, ’éĘ referring to
objects, ’éĘ static members, ’éĘ classes and their friends, ’éĘ defining and
overloading operators.

## Class hierarchy

’éĘ base class, superclass, subclass, ’éĘ inheritance: how it works, ’éĘ types
of inheritance, ’éĘ inheriting different class components, ’éĘ multiple
inheritance.

## More on classes

’éĘ polymorphism: the notion and the purpose, ’éĘ virtual methods:
declaration and usage, ’éĘ inheriting virtual methods, ’éĘ abstraction and
abstract classes.

## Exceptions - dealing with expected and unexpected problems

’éĘ what is an exception, ’éĘ catching and throwing exceptions, ’éĘ different
classes and hierarchy of exceptions, ’éĘ defining your own exceptions.

# CPP C++ Certified Professional Programmer Certification

A test candidate should demonstrate sufficient knowledge of the C++
template mechanism, reading and understanding definitions of template
functions and classes, using property template classes and methods
including third party templates, creating template functions and
classes, C++ STL library including the IO part, and solving common
programming problems with STL predefined classes and methods.

## CPP Exam: Outline

ŌÖ” Templates; ŌÖ” STL Sequential containers; ŌÖ” STL Associative containers;
ŌÖ” Non-modifying STL algorithms; ŌÖ” Modifying STL algorithms; ŌÖ” Sorting
STL operations; ŌÖ” STL merge operations; ŌÖ” STL utilities and functional
library; ŌÖ” STL Advanced I/O.

## Templates

’éĘ What are templates, ’éĘ Basic syntax, ’éĘ Function templates, ’éĘ Class
templates, ’éĘ When to use templates, ’éĘ Typical problems when using
templates.

## STL Sequential containers

’éĘ Types of sequential containers, ’éĘ vector, deque, list and their API, ’éĘ
Sequential container adapters ŌĆō stack, queue and priority queue, ’éĘ
Dealing with objects as container elements, ’éĘ Usage ŌĆō when to use what.

## STL Associative containers

’éĘ Types of associative containers, ’éĘ set and multiset ŌĆō behavior and
API, ’éĘ map and multimap ŌĆō behavior and API, ’éĘ Putting objects into set
and map, ’éĘ Usage ŌĆō when to use what.

## Non-modifying STL algorithms

’éĘ Definition of a non-modifying algorithm ’éĘ List of non-modifying
algorithms: for<sub>each</sub>, find, find<sub>if</sub>,
find<sub>end</sub>, find<sub>firstof</sub>, adjacent<sub>find</sub>,
count, count<sub>if</sub>, mismatch, equal, search, search<sub>n</sub>,
’éĘ Examples, ’éĘ Container compatibility.

## Modifying STL algorithms

’éĘ Definition of a modifying algorithm, ’éĘ List of modifying algorithms:
transform, copy, copy<sub>backward</sub>, swap, swap<sub>ranges</sub>,
iter<sub>swap</sub>, replace, fill, fill<sub>n</sub>, generate,
generate<sub>n</sub>, remove, remove<sub>if</sub>, unique,
unique<sub>copy</sub>, reverse, reverse<sub>copy</sub>, rotate,
partition, stable<sub>partition</sub> ’éĘ Examples, ’éĘ Container
compatibility.

## Sorting STL operations

’éĘ List of sorting algorithms: random<sub>shuffle</sub>, sort,
stable<sub>partition</sub>, lower<sub>bound</sub>,
upper<sub>bound</sub>, equal<sub>range</sub>, binary<sub>search</sub>, ’éĘ
Examples, ’éĘ Containers compatibility, ’éĘ Sorting of objects.

## STL merge operations

’éĘ List of merging algorithms: merge, includes, min<sub>element</sub>,
max<sub>element</sub>, inplace<sub>merge</sub>, ’éĘ STL operations for
sets, ’éĘ Examples, ’éĘ Container compatibility.

## STL utilities and functional library

’éĘ STL ŌĆ£smallŌĆØ tools, ’éĘ List of useful functors, ’éĘ Examples.

## STL advanced I/O

’éĘ Classes which provide the input and output capability, ’éĘ Console I/O,
’éĘ Formatting, ’éĘ File I/O, ’éĘ Strings I/O, ’éĘ Examples
